Where we are right now is a market that
has a lot of expectations baked in.
>> Earnings are at a record high and going
higher.
>> Wall Street is willing to bid your stock
higher if you're showing the topline
growth.
>> Earnings growth is going to be the big
lifeblood going forward.
>> Stock prices follow earnings.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now coming
into Friday. Waiting for the big
announcement.
>> Won't be too surprising to people. It's
going to be uh somebody that is very
respected, somebody that's known to
everybody in the financial world, and I
I think it's going to be a very good
choice. Investors expecting the White
House to nominate Kevin Walsh, sending
equity markets inching lower and bond
yields inching higher as the path to
Senate confirmation remains close for
now. It's decision day in Washington.
>> It's decision day for the president.
It's not necessarily decision day as you
were just laying out for Congress given
some of the obstacles there. It already
has been a decision that's made in
Marcus which is high skepticism that
Kevin Worsh should he be the nominee
will actually be doubbish and deliver to
President Trump what he's looking for.
This is a Kevin Worsh that has been
against quantitative easing, has
emphasized inflation through a period of
time where inflation was not the
pre-minent concern and markets are
taking that.
>> I think we should probably stress at the
top of the program and I know you're
going in this direction anyway that this
isn't the pick until it's the pick and
most people around the president will
tell you the same thing.
>> Absolutely. Even if the president comes
out because it's going to be so long for
this individual to get confirmed in
Congress given the fact that Senator
Tillis has made it very clear he is not
moving. He's a senior member of the
banking committee. He is not moving till
the DOJ investigation on Powell and the
Fed is wrapped up. Potentially, we can
get a president that changes his mind.
And right now, what you're seeing is the
bond market push back. I look back to
what the bond market did when Trump
chose Powell in 2017. Well, yields fell.
Different story today.
>> The market moves aren't big moves. And I
think partly because so many people
don't know how to price this. Who is
Kevin Walsh?
>> Which Kevin Walsh do we actually get if
he takes over the Federal Reserve?
>> Yeah. Do you get one that we saw back in
2006 to 2009 2010? Or do we see the
person who came out with opeds talking
about how there needs to be a complete
overhaul of personnel at the Federal
Reserve to potentially create the way?
But to Amarie's point, how likely is it
that President Trump gets up there and
says, "And I'd like to announce my next
nominee kid." Just kidding. Scott
Bessie, come on up. You know, I mean,
how much is it sort of the way people
are expecting
on the nominee? Well, maybe Kevin Worsh
can then move to Treasury. That's how
you can have it.
>> Look, I will say this and I think it's
important. He's a former Fed governor,
which makes him credible with the
institution. And I wonder if this makes
it more likely if it happens that J Pal
steps down and isn't there beyond May
and gives them a little bit more room to
carve the Federal Reserve into what
they'd like it to look like.
>> There were a couple of research reports
on this and they had varying degrees of
uh determination on this. On one hand,
people say, "Okay, this is a credible
nominee." So it actually does allow
Jerome Power to Powell to step down. On
the other hand, should this be a new Fed
chair that is determined to reshape the
way that the Fed board looks, that might
be a different story. You might get some
departures, but not necessarily Chair
Powell.
>> Futures on the S&P down about 7/10en of
1% on the S&P 500. Coming up this hour,
John Sto of Oppenheimer as markets await
President Trump's pick to lead the Fed.
Ed Mills of Raymond James on the
confirmation process in Washington. and
Dan Ies of Wed Bush's Apple posts a
record quarter for sales. We begin this
out with our top story. President Trump
saying he'll announce his pick for the
next chairman of the Federal Reserve at
some point later this morning.
Bloomberg's Mike McKe joins us now for
more. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, you asked the
question, who is Kevin Walsh? And I
think the answer comes from the
president. He's someone well known on
both uh Wall Street and in Washington.
He uh began his career after graduating
from Harvard Law and Stanford at Morgan
Stanley, then moved from there to the
George W. Bush White House in 2002 as an
economic adviser. And then Bush
appointed him as the youngest Fed
governor ever in 2006. Since then, he's
lectured at Stanford, but his primary
job is advising the legendary investor
Stan Ducken Miller at Dukane Capital.
What does Worsh think? Well, Worsh is a
critic of the Fed, a harsh critic of the
Fed. has been since he left. One of the
reasons he left, he said, was because he
did not like QE. He thought it was going
too far and it expanded the Fed's remitt
by too much. He wants them to
concentrate on fighting inflation. Uh he
has that hawkish reputation that you
were talking about, but recently has
been talking about the idea that AI is
going to give us the higher productivity
needed to bring inflation down and
therefore maybe the Fed can do a little
bit more. He does want the smaller
balance sheet. Now, he could go back to
the old system of scarce reserves at the
Fed. He says the Fed's guilty of mission
creep, and he thinks Fed officials
overcommunicate. And he's uh praised
Mickey Bowman's reforms for bank
regulation, but thinks the Fed could
give that role up if necessary. He's
also willing to work with the Treasury
Department, perhaps a new Treasury Fed
accord to try to keep the economy in as
top shape as possible.
>> Mike, what has he changed his mind
about? You touched on it briefly. What's
the big one for you?
>> Well, the big one seems to be he's not
as hawkish as he was. I mean, he will
tell you that inflation is the key to
everything and the Fed has to focus on
bringing inflation down, but he thinks
it's more possible. I I think that at
this point what Kevin Walsh is telling
the president is we can probably
continue cutting rates and it may not be
as immediate as you think but as AI
comes online we'll be able to go lower
than other people think our star will
fall but perhaps the biggest appeal to
the president is the fact that Worsh
kind of wants to blow up the Fed and
make some major changes in the way it
operates.
>> Michael Key with the latest. Michael,
thank you. The market trying to digest
this. We got bond yields at the long end
of the curve. We've got equities lowered
by 7/10 of 1%. And this is going to be a
process, Lisa, to find out if Kevin
Walsh gets nominated and confirmed. A
process to find out what he really
stands for.
>> Yeah. And if he does really indicate
that he does want to cut rates
significantly, to your question, what
has changed so materially to make him
less of an inflation hawk? Unless of
someone who wants to accelerate any kind
of wind down of the balance sheet at a
time where there has been speculation by
a number of different members of the
cabinet. The balance sheet could be
instrumental in getting long-term yields
down.
>> Here's the view on Wall Street so far
this morning. John Stalus of
Oppenheimimer, the biggest bull on the
street, writing the following. Worries
tied to domestic risk with regard to
Federal Reserve independence and
subsequently to monetary policy could
cause the stock market and the bond
market to wobble near-term. John joins
us now for more. John, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Is this the wobble you were talking
about or is this different?
>> No, this is different. The the the
wobble I I was expecting was more it
would be towards someone who would be
likely to uh take interest down uh more
aggressively than less aggressive. the
other Kevin, not this Kevin.
>> Right.
>> What's your view on this Kevin?
>> You know, I don't have a lot of detail
on it like most people do.
>> Isn't that the problem, John, at the
moment for a lot of people? We're
familiar with Kevin Walsh and his
experience at the Federal Reserve. We
know what he stood for then. It's
difficult to understand what he stands
for now.
>> I I think that is because he has has a
certain amount of uh of providence with
with with the job and over a period of
time, it's difficult to to project where
he's going to be. But I've got to say
this, you know, when it comes to the
people who work at the Fed, uh uh
economists tend to be of a of a certain
ilk. They they are not like uh uh uh
like sheep. They're more like cats. You
can't hurt them. And so they're very
independent. And I think that I think
he'll work well if if he's if he
actually becomes the Fed chair. You
know, you look at but Powell's been very
criticized. We we happened to like
Powell a lot because we thought a slower
methodology towards ending the hike
cycle was better than an aggressive one
based on the stickiness of inflation. So
when I heard this yesterday or this
morning, whatever it was, I've been up
for hours already. Uh,
you know, I I thought, well, it did it
worried me much less than if it had been
someone that would likely be
aggressively cutting. And I think it'll
be a thoughtful process.
Well, there's a bigger question here too
about the response function in markets.
The idea that equities sell off in the
face of potentially higher yields or a
lack of rate cuts. How interest rate
sensitive is this market and is some of
the record highs that we've seen
recently?
>> I would say from a trader perspective,
it is very sensitive. from an
intermediate to longer term investors uh
uh position, it's much less sensitive to
the to to rates staying higher for
longer. Uh you know, and somebody's been
been you know, the 43 years that I'm
coming up on on in May or July sometime
there have a senior moment remembering
when I first reported to a job on Wall
Street. I can remember when people were
mourning the loss of 12% yields. So
rates were still very high early in '
83, 84, 85, 86 and and and the market
was going up.
>> So this is really the conundrum and and
I guess that when we look at what's
going on with markets and try to
understand it, are you saying that
longer term it doesn't really matter how
much the Fed cuts rates for you to
maintain your bullish call?
>> Yep. I I I would say so. I mean, I think
where we are right now looks to me
pretty well normal. uh or you know
related to where if where you look where
the 10-year yield is right now that
makes sense that that's the vig
essentially for uh for uh for loans at
the area of around 10 years to uh to 7
to 10 years that kind of rate makes
sense. Uh the other thing is you know
ultimately the only thing the equity
market really cares about is revenue
growth and earnings growth and can
companies grow revenues and earnings and
it was certainly proven uh when Vulkar
was chair that the market after it got
over the recession it just took off you
know I mean 1982 was a August of 82 was
a major rally and I can remember people
had told me oh that rally wouldn't last
well guess what it lasted all the way to
87 seven notwithstanding, you know,
normal fluctuations, but and especially
with with with technology today, uh
making businesses more efficient uh
being and technology is an enemy of
inflation.
>> But John, today we do see a little bit
of a market reaction.
>> Oh, sure.
>> What what is it saying? Is the market
basically rewinding its expectations
that the Federal Reserve would be easier
this year?
>> Yeah, I think I think they were really
they were expecting said the market and
and the market defined as traders. Okay.
because it really is it's it's your
traders are always looking at the
short-term effect of this and this
naturally will affect probably positions
that were set on an announcement that
would have been more aggressive cutting
coming up. And so they're probably
getting they're probably unwinding some
positions and it's what we've seen in
the in the market over the last uh the
market discounts both good news and bad
news very quickly. It tends to rotate
and rebalance. If you watch it the way I
do on my Bloomberg screens, I one day
we're risk, the next day we're risk off.
One day it's large caps, the next day
they're given a bid to smalls and mids.
Yeah. Uh, you know, some days it's
value, some days it's growth. Last year,
the first half was value, and then
growth just took over in the second half
of the year. It's it's sort of like the
Texas weather. If you don't like it,
wait a few minutes.
>> It's kind of like the month so far as
well. January has been its own year.
John, I just want to finish on the
Federal Reserve. This is going to be a
process. Let's find out if it is
actually Kevin Walsh, if he can get
confirmed. Most people assume once that
process starts, he will be and how
persuasive his arguments will be on the
committee. These are all separate things
and things can change very quickly based
on one address from Kevin Walsh if
indeed he is nominated and confirmed.
But based on what you know so far, based
on what you're thinking about, did the
strike price for the Fed put just
change?
>> Yeah, it probably changed somewhat. I I
I think at this point uh in in the sense
that I think they were looking for a
different a different story. They were
looking for lessening of of uh of of
interest rates and now likely living
more for a longer period of time with
the regime that we have right now. A
continuation of Powell.
>> John, it's good to see you. Thank you,
sir. Great seeing you.
>> John Sto of Oppenheimer. Thank you very
much. GFC was a long time ago, but a lot
of people have shaped views on Kevin
Walsh based on what he argued for coming
out of the great financial crisis. And
if we do go into another crisis, and we
are being led by Kevin Walsh at the top
of the Federal Reserve, markets will
need some convincing of what he actually
stands for.
>> From 2006 to 2011, he was a Fed
governor. So leading up to the financial
crisis till the aftermath in 2009, as
recently as 2009, when a lot of people
were saying the US was mired in this
terrible recession, the numbers would
bear that out. He said that the balance
sheet was too big and they should stop
with the quantitative easing at that
point and really pushed back. So if he
was still concerned about inflation then
what has changed so substantially? Yes,
there is the technological overlay but
how far will that go when you talk about
some of the other structural changes?
>> The institution can change people. I
think we should be sort of like thinking
about that a little bit more. Think
about President Lagard of the ECB. We're
not here to close spreads. Remember
that.
>> Oh yeah.
>> It lasted about 5 minutes and then she
had to lean in and close spreads pretty
quickly.
>> Yeah. Look, this is true. And
ultimately, if he is convincing
President Trump, clearly there is
something going on that makes President
Trump think that this is a different
Kevin Walsh than the one that we're
going to hear about from Neil Duta.
>> Yeah, I wonder what the president thinks
when he wakes up and looks at a price
action, but that's another thing. We're
down about 610 of 1% on the S&P. Bond
yields higher a little bit at the long
end of the curve. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloombo brief. Here's Yahara Arnard.
Hey, Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. We're all waiting with baited
breath. President Donald Trump saying
he'll announce his pick to replace Fed
Chair Jay Powell this morning. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the
president will nominate Kevin Worsh who
served on the Fed's board of governors
from 2006 to 2011. It will mark a
comeback for Wars who was passed over
for the top job in 2017 when Trump
selected Jerome Powell.
Meanwhile, President Trump and Senate
Democrats reaching a deal to avert a
government shutdown. The agreement would
fund the Department of Homeland Security
for two weeks, allowing time to
negotiate Democrats demands over
immigration rates. House Speaker Mike
Johnson saying there may not be enough
time for a vote before government funds
run out tonight.
And Apple shares are lower 610 of a
percent in the pre-market despite the
company posting record quarterly sales
and issuing a stronger than expected
outlook thanks to strong iPhone sales
particularly in China. It appears
concerns about rising memory prices,
supply chain constraints, and weak spots
in its Mac and wearables businesses are
weighing on the stock this morning.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> hey, thank you. More from Mihara later
this hour. Up next on the program
decision day in Washington.
>> What day will you be announcing your
betare pick next week?
>> Uh, tomorrow morning.
>> Tomorrow morning.
>> It's going to be uh somebody that is
very respected, somebody that's known to
everybody in the financial world. Up
next, we'll catch up with Ed Mills of
Raymond James live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Equities
down across the board. We're lower by
0.6% on the S&P, off by 3/4 on the
NASDAQ. On the Russell, we're down by
more than 1%. Check out the move in the
bond market. Yields up across the long
end of the curve. 10-year bond yields
high by two basis points. 30-year bond
yields up by three to four. the focus on
the chairman of the Federal Reserve and
Savannah this morning decision day in
Washington.
>> What day will you be announcing your
vent chair pick next week?
>> Uh tomorrow morning.
>> Tomorrow morning.
>> It's going to be uh somebody that is
very respected, somebody that's known to
everybody in the financial world and I I
think it's going to be a very good
choice. I hope so.
>> So, someone who was on your short list,
sir.
>> Uh on my reasonably short list. Yeah.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump expected to
nominate Kevin Walsh as the next chair
of the Federal Reserve. Republican
Senator Tom Tillis vowing to block the
president's nominee until the DOJ
resolves its investigation into the
central bank. Joining us now to discuss
is Jonathan Tamari from Bloomberg
government. Jonathan, we've talked a lot
about the man. Talk to us about the
process. How is this going to play out
down in Washington? Yeah, it's
complicated by Senator Tillis's position
because he's on the finance committee
which is the first stop for the nominee
and Republicans only have a one vote
advantage there. So obviously then that
math is pretty easy if he is in
opposition. The nomination can't get
past that committee. Now the president
typically gets what he wants, but the
politics are a little bit different
here. Uh Tom Tillis is no longer running
for reelection. And so while he
supported some nominees in the past that
he raised pro concerns about, his
political considerations are very
different, we've seen that recently.
He's been one of the first Republicans
to call for Homeland Security Secretary
Christy known to lose her job. And so
he's got a measure of independence that
he maybe didn't have before and that's
going to complicate things.
>> Jonathan, what do we know about the DOJ
investigation? Is the Fed sloww walking
things? What do we know about any of
this? I mean, it sounds like the Fed has
cooperated and that basically we're
waiting to see what the DOJ is going to
do. Uh, what the senator wants is he
says a conclusion and and and I will
note that this is probably the issue
that I've seen the most push back from
Senate Republicans of anything that's
come up publicly in in Trump's second
term. They are really concerned about
Fed independence. That goes back to, you
know, old school Republican values,
about economic values. So, I think there
is a lot of concern there. And they
basically want the DOJ to say whether
they're making charges, whether they're
dropping the case, whatever it is, they
want a conclusion before they move
forward.
>> Jonathan, it's good to see you. Jonathan
to Mar there of Bloomberg government.
Stay close. We're all waiting for that
announcement a little bit later this
morning. Amarie, you've been tracking
this closely as well. The message from
Washington is pretty clear. If you want
the confirmation process to start, this
needs to go away,
>> right? Which means that the Fed also
needs to play ball in this sense. And
there are reports that the Fed has not
responded to the subpoenas by the DOJ.
So Powell in that sense could be in the
driving seat to really make sure this
drags on.
>> Ed Mills of Raymond James joins us now
for more. Ed, what are you telling
clients this morning about what Kevin
Walsh stands for?
Yeah. So, I think the biggest question
for us at Raymond James is kind of will
the market test the new Fed chairman and
is the test going to come in the bond
market versus the equity market because
of his position that the Fed balance
sheet needs to shrink. Now, the Fed has
already paused the shrinking of that
balance sheet to make sure that there is
a cap on yields, Jonathan. And so, if
there is a spike up in yields once he is
confirmed, if he is nominated, he will
be confirmed. Um, and so how does he
respond at that point? Does he allow for
more QE, which he has always been
against since he was on the board and
after the board? What Kevin Worsh do we
get if Donald Trump nominates him? Is it
the Kevin Worsh that we knew as a
governor or is it the guy who is going
for this job?
>> Well, he's a chameleon as Jonathan has
said before in the past. Jonathan also
said earlier today, this is conventional
in terms of this is someone who came out
of the institution. But Ed, how is the
MAGA base going to react to this sort of
nomination?
you know, I think that um they are going
to trust the president. I don't think
that the chairman of the Federal Reserve
gets as much attention by uh day-to-day
Americans as we give it in the financial
press, obviously. Um and so I think
they'll watch that confirmation hearing.
They'll want to see if there is anything
in particular that they need to be
concerned about. Uh but generally
speaking, I you are 100% right, Emory.
This is a very conventional pick. This
is someone who's been on the board. This
is someone who's worked in the
administration. Generally speaking,
chairmans of the Fed have had
administration experience, have Fed
experience, someone that is known by
these markets. And so from that
perspective, this is a very much in the
middle of the road uh pick by President
Trump. This is not someone that comes
from the, you know, kind of outside of
expectations. And so while we might have
kind of some market reaction as we are
trying to figure out who he will be once
he is a chairman um it is not someone
that has the huge market reaction of an
unexpected pick.
>> Well it's so peculiar because I think
even the president would say he does
things unconventional when it comes to
the White House. What is it do you think
that made him choose Kevin Worsh?
>> So I think there was a lot of push back
about the potential for other
nominations out there. Uh we saw a lot
of concern about Kevin Hassard. Uh I
think that he does want to make sure the
stock market is performing well, that
the economy is performing well as he
goes into the midterm election year. Uh
he cannot have this market down and the
economy uh in recession and expect for
Republicans to do well. And so this is
probably one of the most high-profile
picks that he can make. and he wants to
make sure that it is a pick that is
wellreceived and well respected uh by
financial markets because he uses the
market as a barometer of his success.
>> And do you view this as sort of
emblematic of a sea change right now
with President Trump, not just with
respect to the Fed pick and picking
someone who's more conventional,
accepted by markets, but more broadly
some of the changes to immigration
policy, more broadly some of the
reaction uh in response to some of the
polling. Do you get the sense that there
is a shift right now at the White House?
So Lisa, I get a sense that the uh White
House is concerned about the political
headwinds that they're facing. Um what
I've seen in the past is that whenever
President Trump thinks that he is in a
political position uh that is not
advantageous, that he thinks that he and
he alone should be the messenger. So at
Raymond James, we've been responding to
social media tweet after kind of social
media post uh all this month uh because
President Trump is coming out with some
pretty unconventional or unexpected
things. uh he is talking about
affordability. He is looking to do
things uh that get him back on the right
side of uh some of the the voters minds.
Um those things are kind of a response
to a reality that Republicans are facing
some significant headwinds as they go
into the midterm election year. Now
they're in well positioned in the Senate
just because of math. Uh but we're
expecting to see more of that as we get
closer to those midterm elections
because he does not want to lose the
majority in the House. He does not want
to lose that majority in the Senate. And
it's good to see you Ed Mills of Raymond
James on the administration and the
latest action down in Washington DC.
Some good news. Are we going to avoid
this going into the weekend?
>> I think it's going to potentially be a
small partial one. Not sure if they can
make it to midnight and getting this
deal over the finish line.
>> Okay. But ultimately we'll get some
economic danger.
>> Yes. So I knew that's what you're going
to ask. I think we're getting the jobs
report Friday. I'm pretty sure we're
getting the jobs report Friday. But we
still might have a partial government
check.
>> I'm pleased we cleared that up. We can
focus on one thing down in Washington
DC. the Federal Reserve and the
president's pick and the likelihood that
it's going to be Kevin Walsh or will it
come from door number five like someone
you didn't even think of is just going
to walk out and stand by the president
>> or has someone you did think about for
the whole time that has been trying to
say we I don't want the job I don't want
the job I mean I think that the question
that you ask Emory is will the president
wake up look at this reaction say
Bessant come on over I mean there is
this question about what the market
check gives him confidence or lack
thereof with respect to Kevin Morris
>> I don't I think it's a big enough move.
>> I would agree.
>> Just a few basis points at the long end
of the curve.
>> I would agree.
>> Yeah.
>> What did Kevin say to him that convinced
him differently?
>> Did you wake the president up for that?
You know, three basis point move at the
long end of the curve.
>> You think he's sleeping? Do you think
he's sleeping?
>> Yeah. That's as I said that I thought,
you know, the president's not gone to
sleep. Has he still drink?
>> Okay. Dan of Wedgebush joins us next.
We'll talk about Apple. A record quarter
for that company.
It is decision day down in Washington
DC. We're waiting for the president's
Federal Reserve chair pick. And this is
how we're pricing Kevin Walsh at the
moment. We're down about 610 of 1% on
the S&P. We're down by 3/4 of 1% on the
NASDAQ 100. Check out the bond market.
Switch up the board. Yields are higher
at the long end of the curve by a
handful of basis points. Up by two on
10's, up by three, call it four on 30s.
Not major moves, but direction of travel
tells you something about the way the
market is thinking about the prospect of
Kevin Walsh leading this institution. If
you check out the other asset classes,
gold down hard, the dollar stronger.
These are some of the moves picking up
steam earlier on this morning.
>> If you want to put a narrative to this,
Kevin Walsh might be on the more hawkish
end of some of the potential Fed picks
that President Trump could have
selected. This is the reason why. If you
want to be more cynical about it, you
could say if anyone was getting a little
bit concerned about how far some of
these rallies had gone in one direction
or another, fantastic opportunity to
sell. I'm going to kind of stick with
the ladder.
>> And the takes are funny to me this
morning because regardless of who it
was, there would have been complaints.
Kevin Hassid, oh sacrificing Fed
independence. Kevin Walsh, too hawkish.
Too hawkish. I think people would have
been unhappy regardless of who it would
have been.
>> Yeah. And right now I think a lot of
people are using it for excuses given
some of the incredibly volatile uh
reaction that we've seen in some of
these precious metals. So before we come
up with the narrative, let's hear a who
it is, b let's hear what this person
says and let's hear from Tom about how
long this process is going to take.
>> Exactly. And this process could take a
while. Let's put it that way. Futures
are doing okay. We're bouncing off lows.
We're down about 610 of 1% on the S&P
500. Let's get you some morning moves
and cross over to Yahara for more. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. We start with the memory chip
and data storage company Sandesk shores
are shares are surging more than 20% in
the pre-market after it delivered a
blowout quarter. The AI buildouts is
changing the game for this once highly
cyclical business. Executives say that
customers are signing multi-year orders
now instead of going quarterto quarter
because they want to lock in orders at a
time when memory chip demand is
outpacing supply. Something we heard
from Tim Cook yesterday on the Apple
call. Meanwhile, also a highf flyier is
Deckers this morning, up 14%. This is
the company behind Hoka and UGG sho
shoes. And it was a beat and a raise for
the shoe maker. And it's all about
pricing power. Executives say that
customers are willing to pay full price
for their shoes. Just reinforcing the
idea that for some companies, consumer
demand has not cracked. And let's get a
check on big tech. We did see some dip
buying at the end of the day yesterday
after that techled sell-off, but there
still is some unease out there about how
much these companies are pouring into
AI. You have Meta down 1.7% after
yesterday's blowout rally. You have
Nvidia looking to snap three days of
gains down 1.3% and Alphabet also weaker
ahead of its earnings next week. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
On our radar this morning, President
Donald Trump reportedly set to nominate
former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh as the
next chair of the Federal Reserve.
Sources telling us here at Bloomberg
that Trump is planning to announce the
pick later on today. The White House and
Senate Democrats reaching a tentative
deal, averting a disruptive shutdown.
The president urging a swift vote as
lawmakers still expect to miss tonight's
deadline. A short funding lapse and
partial shutdown are now the most likely
scenarios. And finally, on any other
morning, this would be the story. Elon
Musk reportedly exploring a massive
consolidation of his empire. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg that Musk
is considering merging SpaceX with Tesla
or an alternative combination with his
artificial intelligence firm X AI.
>> So there have been a number of
speculations, rumors that there will be
some sort of consolidation question
about time management. A bigger question
to me about does he really want to be
committed to the car business? Is the
car business that interesting to him
anymore given some of the affordability
etc. We've already seen the shift to
robotics and the sort of emphasis there.
How much is he trying to reconfigure
himself as a tech uh innovator in a
different kind of way than just electric
vehicles,
>> right? He's talking about data centers
in space and he wants to bring
everything under one roof so that the
supply chains and things can work better
together. It also comes as you're going
to have this massive IPO in the summer
and lots of reporting that this is going
to happen around Musk's birthday. Happy
birthday, Mr. Elon Musk. But also with
going on with the planets, he wants a
specific time. So this decision needs to
be made likely before you have this IPO
of Space Hack.
>> That is very Elon the stock Tesla at the
moment in the pre-market higher by about
2%. Let's stick with tech. Apple shares
pairing gains after the tech giant
posted best its best ever quarter of
sales and a forecast well above
estimates thanks to record iPhone sales.
Joining us now to discuss is Dan Ice of
Wbush. Dan, good morning. Good to see
you. Great to be here.
>> Numbers are phenomenal. Let's just start
with the numbers themselves. Where on
earth did that growth in China come
from? I mean, look, that's, you know,
it's pen up demand and they're having
success. I mean, iPhone 17, it's kind
of, you know, it's been sleepy, but
actually a pretty huge upgrade cycle. I
think you see in the numbers, you know,
obviously the stock reaction. Look, I'd
say it's it's a yawner because investors
are just so laser focused on AI, right?
In other words, like how they're going
to monetize, what's that strategy? Cook
talked about it a little, but in terms
of the actual numbers and services and
iPhone, look, it was sort of a best case
scenario. And I think now it's really
about showing how they're going to
monetize on AI. That's going to be their
story for 2026.
>> Cost, we need to talk about cost as
well. Something that typically doesn't
come up, but it was anticipated this
time around. Why are things getting more
expensive?
>> Yeah, just memory, right? I mean, if you
look at, you know, everything you see
SanDisk and what's happening on chips,
it's supply, DRAM, pricing, everything
that's happened across the board. Look,
but our view is like ultimately when it
comes to iPhone 18, they're going to
have to raise prices probably by $1,
$150.
So, it's something that we worry about
less from a margin perspective, but but
look, the reality is is that this stock
being 325, 350 or where it is today,
it's not going to be because of margins,
because of iPhone, because of ser it's
about showing truly that they have an AI
strategy that they're going to actually
roll out that they can monetize. Well,
part one of the big skepticism behind
Apple and the reason why it's
underperformed since December, since it
hit a record, has been this question
around is it just an iPhone company? Has
it been able to diversify in a
meaningful way? Yes, you did see that
$30 billion coming from services, but
wearables, the Mac line, not seeing that
same kind of growth. And I just wonder
whether it's enough to just say that
iPhone 18 is going to come out with some
incredible AI innovation and that's
going to change the trajectory and some
of the concerns that they can't move
away from this one product.
>> Yeah. I mean look to your point like the
reality is like the the core the
ingredients the hearts and lungs of
Apple are always going to be iPhone
relative to as a percent of revenue. But
I think their culture has definitely
hurt them the last few years especially
because a I'm not doing acquisitions and
maybe they've done you know like
recently that they've done one a small
one but the problem is is that investors
they're not going to give them credit
which speaks to our point like this is
the year from Google to Siri to WWDC to
rolling out it's not going to be on the
hardware side it's going to be how they
monetize subscription and AI for the 2.5
billion iOS devices. So, we've already
seen this with respect to the earnings
from Microsoft and from Meta. Meta was
rewarded because they showed how they
were deploying this in terms of their
advertising. Microsoft was penalized
because guess what? They have to spend
that much more and they're not seeing
the benefits as quickly as people were
expecting. What do you think investors
are getting wrong? So, I know you're
really bullish and you think that people
are underappreciating how quickly this
can be rolled out. What are people
getting wrong about what they're seeing
in those numbers from say Microsoft or
some of the skepticism around Apple
about how quickly this can be deployed?
>> Yeah, it's a great question. Look, I
mean, Microsoft is almost met last
quarter, you know, in terms of the
capbacks and the way and then now
they're they're doing a, you know, a
ticker tape parade for for Zuckerberg
and Meta, right? So, I think it just
comes down to for these companies, the
challenge is like you have a fourth
industrial revolution. There's no anyone
says AI bubble is is not I don't think
plugged into what's happening just in
terms of overall spending on what we're
seeing even on physical AI, robotics,
autonomous and everything. But the
reality is that for these companies,
it's a balancing act. And if you just
manage it by a quarter or two quarters,
they'll lose out. And I think for
Nadella and Microsoft, that they got to
spend on capbacks. No, do I think that
conference call was probably a C plus
relative to communication. I think that
was disappointing and I think that that
really caught
>> Can I just ask you a bad conference call
now is worth $375 billion to a company?
I mean seriously, doesn't that tell you
something about the price of something?
>> Yeah. And I I think what it does, it
shows the sensitivity from investors and
look you see the software stuff look at
service now and software right now is
that investors are so hyper sensitive.
You obviously talk about the show all
the time is that is capback when am I
going to see the monetization? When are
we going to see the growth? Azure is it
40% growth? Is it 39%. Okay. What's the
whisper number? So and and I think on
the conference calls investors want to
see that capbacks toward Azure toward
grow toward cloud. Now I think on the
other hand like when you let's say like
when we see like Alphabet next week I
think that's one like they're now in a
more of a pole position but a year ago
right New York City cab driver one touch
it was bearish on it. So I think that's
that's the reality of what we've seen in
big tech. Dan, when it comes to Tesla,
do you think they merge with um SpaceX
or do you think it's XAI and SpaceX?
>> So, I think it's SpaceX and XAI, but I
believe Tesla is going to own a piece of
that. I that's sort of our view and you
made a great point because the reality
is like the future for Musk it's not nec
it's not delivery it's not car the
future and we talk about all the times
it's autonomous it's robotics and this
is really slowly piece by piece brick by
brick him building what's essentially
like the AI sort of ecosystem and it
just and that's essentially I think the
stepby-step process
>> but if he's eyeing an IPO in June how
quickly does this need to get done. Oh,
>> I think in the next few month, in other
words, like this is something like
before March Madness, this is going to
have to hit to give some time like
before March because especially with an
IPO, you know, in the summer.
>> How much is this being driven by the
fact that he is the underdog based on
China's development of electric
vehicles? How much is this not a failed
bet, but an idea that he cannot get
dominance in the way that he once
envisioned in this particular industry?
>> Well, it speaks to like look the trial
with with Alman Open AI that will
happen. I think it speaks to like
there's a view like maybe from behind
from the AI perspective now they have to
go more aggressive. X AI has been a huge
offensive bet. You look what's happened
in China with BYD and you know with the
domestic competition. I think Musk is
like he's read the room but it speaks to
our view like he is now more of like a
wartime CEO in terms of what he's
navigating. But look, to put this all
together for investors, it's it's a leap
of faith and we've talked about it, but
the reality is like for Tesla to be like
600's the base, 800's the bulk case for
Tesla, that's not going to get there on
deliveries and gross margins. It's
getting there on autonomous, optimist,
and FSD penetration.
>> Dan Ives a web bush. Dan, appreciate
your time, buddy, as always. And Lisa,
I'm right there with you. This is the
most difficult market to be in right
now, particularly if you've got exposure
to China. There isn't a market on the
planet I can think of that is more
competitive than the EV industry in the
world's second largest economy.
>> There was a story this morning that I
thought was fascinating. 1 in 10
vehicles sold in Europe over the past
year was from China. It is a much bigger
proportion. I think it's something like
18% of all electric vehicles being sold
in Europe currently coming from China.
They are the dominant market and a lot
of people who go over there and see
those cars say they are incredibly
advanced and they're a lot cheaper. So
why would Elon Musk hang his head on
that when he's being valued as a tech
company? The answer is he's not going to
and these are the moves he's going to
take.
>> They're going to be cheaper in Canada
too by the way based on recent action by
Prime Minister Carney. So
>> maybe UK is next.
>> There you go. Who knows based on that
visit too.
>> Correct.
>> Equities right now in the S&P 500
negative by about a half of 1% bouncing
back a touch. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara. Hi, Yahihara.
>> Hi, John. Chevron reporting fourth
quarter earnings that topped Wall Street
estimates though shares are in the red.
The company planning to increase
production in Venezuela by 50% within
the next two years. Chevron CEO saying,
quote, "We have been a part of
Venezuela's past for more than a century
and we stand ready to help it build a
future while strengthening US energy and
regional security."
Meanwhile, President Donald Trump Trump
says he will impose a 50% tariff on
aircraft from Canada and descertify all
Canadianmade planes until Ottawa agrees
to approve certain jets manufactured by
Gulfream Aerospace. The president also
threatening tariffs on Canadian goods if
it pursues a trade deal with China, as
you guys were discussing. And Amazon is
in talks to invest as much as $50
billion in open AI. The ChachiPT maker
is seeking up to $100 billion in new
capital from investors in a round that
could value it as much as $830 billion.
The Wall Street Journal reporting OpenAI
is eyeing an IPO before the end of this
year hoping to beat rival Anthropic.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
the next hour. Up next on the program,
commodity concerns.
what's not being discounted in the
market and that gives me extreme concern
is the broadening of the commodity
rally. What this commodity and the
widening of of this basket does, it's
going to add a significant amount of
volatility to the market. That's what's
not being anticipated.
>> Some of that unwinding this morning. Up
next, we'll catch up with Amita Sen of
Energy Aspects.
Stocks are down. We're negative by 0.5%
on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by 6 or 7/10 of 1%.
Underperformance on the Russell 2000,
down by 0.9. In the bond market, yields
are higher, particularly at the longer
end of the curve. So 10-year bond yields
up by a basis point. 30-year bond yields
up by 2 to three. We've stressed
repeatedly through the hour. These
aren't big moves. Directionally, it
speaks to maybe on the margin a more
hawkish Federal Reserve chief if he gets
the nomination and gets confirmed. But I
will keep repeating this, Lisa. I think
the problem with pricing Kevin Walsh is
that no one really knows how to price
Kevin Walsh.
>> And we don't actually know whether Kevin
Walsh is going to end up being the
nominee and whether he can get through
anytime soon. I do think though that
there is a tell here and that is
something that you mentioned earlier
which is the strike price of the Fed put
and if this is going to be a President
Trump who is looking for someone who is
credible in the market's eyes. Does that
mean you're not going to get that
incredibly dovish tilt that some people
were starting to flirt with?
>> How does he respond in a crisis? It's a
question we've got to ask. We don't have
a crisis right now. The year ahead
should be good based on the projections
we're hearing on Wall Street. But
questions we've got to ask. Futures down
by about a half of 1% on the S&P. huge
moves in commodities over the past few
weeks under Sennis this morning.
Commodity concerns.
>> What's not being discounted in the
market and that gives me extreme concern
is the broadening of the commodity
rally. When that commodity rally expands
into what we're seeing today, copper
almost up 10% today, that has
significant impact into the AI buildout.
What this commodity and the widening of
of this basket does, it's going to add a
significant amount of volatility to the
market. That's what's not being
anticipated. So here's the latest this
morning. The commodity rally beginning
to lose some steam after gold, silver,
and copper all surged to record highs
this week. Bloomberg's Will Kennedy
joins us now for more. Will welcome to
the program. It's precious metals, base
metals, energy, too in the last week or
so. Well, what's behind this renewed
enthusiasm for the commodity complex?
>> Morning, John. Thanks for having me.
Well, yes, clearly we've seen the most
amazing runup uh in commodity prices. I
think that there have been a few things
feeding into that. uh it's been going on
for some time. This whole idea of the
basement and moving away from dollar
assets has been good for commodities
especially precious metals. That
precious rally has been supported by
some very strong central bank uh buying
and it's drawn a lot of retail investors
in in copper. Again, we've talked over
the last couple of years about the
fundamental story for copper, which is
these very strong demand drivers and
constrained supply. But it's again
drawing in a broader group of investors.
But when you looked at the chart,
especially on gold, it had become so
vertical that some kind of pullback was
going to be uh inevitable. And I think
that uh Walsh, no matter who he turns
out to be, that announcement has been
the trigger for a bit of a a selloff
this morning.
>> Well, as you speak, we've got that
announcement right now. I'm going to
break the news for you. the president of
the United States picking Kevin Walsh,
the former Fed governor, to be the next
Fed chair, saying no doubt Walsh will go
down as one of the great Fed chairs.
That pick is official. It comes from the
president of the United States crossing
the Bloomberg terminal just seconds ago.
The president of the United States
picking the former Fed Governor Kevin
Walsh for his nomination to be the next
Federal Reserve chair. The president
saying Walsh will never let you down. No
doubt that Kevin Walsh will go down as
one of the great Fed chairs.
>> So, the speculation is over. decision
day has been made and met and it is
confirming what we saw earlier. A real
question here about what the response is
going to be and who Kevin Walsh is given
the fact that during his tenure from
2006 to 2011 as a Fed governor he had a
pretty hawkish take on inflation and the
balance sheet right now you are seeing
two-year yields though just coming in a
bit. So maybe there is this belief he
makes in markets with a pretty small
move that he will cater to some of
President Trump's whims
>> when it comes to the statement on truth.
social. It's really reads like a resume
for Kevin Walsh and everything he's done
in government and the private sector
from drunken Miller to working at the
Federal Reserve. But at the end, it's
becomes a little bit more personal. I've
known Kevin for a long period of time.
Have no doubt that he will go down as
one of the great Fed chairman, maybe the
best on top of everything else. He is
quote central casting and who will never
let you down. Congratulations, Kevin.
Now, remember, actually, I know this is
a bit tongue-in-cheek and a little bit
funny, but the Trump has talked about
that he does look like central casting
said he has great hair. didn't think he
went for the job too hard in 2017 and
said, "You should have tried harder."
This time, he clearly did. On the
background, he ran a very successful
campaign, having individuals call the
president, call the White House, put out
some opeds, and go do some interviews.
>> Let's get to the market reaction off the
back of this. Widely anticipated this
morning. Yields are higher by two or
three basis points. 10's at 425, 30s up
three to 488 as you were. No big changes
here. If you check out the equity market
on the S&P 500, futures slightly
negative. We're down about 4/10en of 1%
on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, we're
down about 0.6. On the Russell, we're
down by 0.9. The headline confirmed from
the president of the United States, if
you're just joining us, that the
president's pick to lead the Federal
Reserve will be the former Fed Governor
Kevin Walsh. Now, this is the pick. This
is the man. We need to talk about the
process as well because there is a bit
of a roadblock down in Washington, DC.
>> Absolutely. So right now there is still
this DOJ investigation on the Federal
Reserve and Senator Tom Tillis told all
of us on this program in Davos he is not
moving. It's the process not the
personality has nothing to do with Kevin
Walsh but he is not moving in terms of
the Senate Banking Committee until the
DOJ investigation is wrapped up. Now
Jonathan I have no date for you on when
that's going to be wrapped up. So this
could take a very long time in terms of
the process in Congress. One thing we
have said earlier on this morning, given
his reputation at the Federal Reserve,
given this is a man who formerly served
as a Fed governor, I think there's some
credibility with the institution there
as opposed to a man that came from
inside the White House and worked
closely with the president. Enough
credibility perhaps that it opens the
door for the current Fed chair to leave
in May. And this is actually quite
important because the chairman's been
asked about this in the news conference
earlier on this week and refused to
engage in the topic. And I wonder if it
makes it a little bit easier now for
Chairman Pal to step away.
>> I think that the answer might lie in the
it depends category. It depends on which
Kevin Walsh you are getting and it
depends on some of his rhetoric that
comes out in the initial speeches
because ultimately this is a Kevin Worsh
who's written opeds. Yes. About the
technological prowess that allows growth
without inflation, but also about
needing to reshape the top of the Fed,
about eliminating certain roles, about
uh unwinding the balance sheet, about
clearing some of the decks, and that
might cause more concern. So it really
depends on exactly what we hear coming
out of this person.
>> If we do see Jay Powell leave and
presidents for the Fed Reserve chairman
that they will leave and not stay on as
a governor, that means that there is a
seat for Governor Myron to also make
sure that he can stay in his seat if
Chairman Powell does leave. So this is
also a very interesting morning I
imagine for Steve Myin finally getting a
little bit more clarity on what his term
at the Fed may look like because it was
supposed to end now. It is not obviously
because they haven't announced someone,
but he can probably stay on as well as
the Fed. And he's going to be a key
individual for Kevin Wars to try to
really herd the cats at the Federal
Reserve to line up for potentially
interest rates if that's where Kevin
Wars deems is necessary for the economy.
>> It's going to take some time to find out
what he stands for. We talked about how
the institution can change you, the way
the responsibility can change your views
on things. And it appears his mind has
changed as well. A lot of people in this
market are familiar with Kevin Walsh for
the way he served as Fed governor back
in the great financial crisis, how he
responded and what his stance was then.
Things can change. People's mind can
change in the last 20 years. How
credible is that shift though? Is this
still a small balance sheet hawk or are
his recent views really his actual
views?
>> Yeah. Or is he willing to take a step
further and actually expand the balance
sheet and go completely against what he
previously believed in? If you think
about some of what we had heard from
some of the potential picks for the
Federal Reserve chair, they were talking
about creative uses of the balance
sheet. We heard that from Rick Rearder
in particular to get longer term
interest rates lower. He might not
necessarily be the same person that he
was say almost 20 years ago. At the same
time, is he going to talk about
expanding the balance sheet to bring
down interest rates to to potentially
make housing more affordable if he wants
a less interventionist Federal Reserve?
There are a lot of questions here that
still need to be answered.
>> Exactly. And for that matter, for that
reason, I think it's difficult to price
this decision this morning, which is why
you see such muted price action. Yields
up by only two to three basis points at
the long end of the curve. Equities just
a little bit softer on the S&P. I don't
think we should make a big deal of this
price action. And I keep repeating this,
it's going to take time to understand
what Kevin Walsh actually stands for,
the kind of decisions he will make on
the committee once he's confirmed, and
also how we'll respond when we get
incoming information if the data
surprises to the downside or to the
upside. what a speech from Kevin Walsh
is actually going to sound like.
>> Wall Street doesn't have conviction.
Neither do we because everything has a
question mark and an asterisk around
him, both the process and the person.
>> But he's out of central casting and he
does look good. Right.
>> His hair is fantastic.
>> There you go. Apparently that gets you
over the line.
>> Exactly.
>> Jordan Jackson and JP Morgan joins us
next. Brian Gardner of Stifel as well
and a whole lot more.
There's a lot of gays in the economy.
The underlying economy is in fact just
fine.
>> We're in the sweet spot where lower
rates are helping to support small
businesses.
>> The risk to growth this year is to the
upside. It's hard to get too bearish.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Bramowitz, and An
Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this. We're
down a third of 1% on the S&P. We're
negative0.5 on the NASDAQ in the bond
market. Softer, lighter, lower at the
long end of the curve. Yields up by a
basis point or three. Up one on 10's up
three on 30s. this announcement from the
president of the United States just
moments ago announcing Kevin Walsh as
his pick to lead the Federal Reserve and
saying quote I have known Kevin for a
long period of time and have no doubt
that he will go down as one of the great
Fed chairman maybe the best.
>> He will never let you down and that is
how President Trump characterized him.
Some people in Wall Street scratching
their heads and you can see that with
the reaction albeit muted as John
rightly pointed out earlier this
morning. This is somebody who was at the
Fed on the board of governors from 2006
to 2011 through the Bush era through an
Obama administration through the
financial crisis and emphasized
consistently inflation as well as the
fact that he did not like the use of
balance sheet and the expansion of it
for quantitative easing in the various
rounds. So if this reinvented Kevin
Walsh can come in and show to President
Trump that he is going to give him his
lower interest rates at the long end as
well as the short one, well he's not
convincing markets. What does he have to
say to really show that he has changed?
>> It's a conventional pick for normal
Washington. It's pretty unconventional
for the president of the United States
given the fact that as Lisa just
outlined, this person actually worked at
the institution. Yes, I know he left,
but he is a hawk. And the number one
question the president has had for
everyone through all of his Fed
interviews, whether it was his first
term or now it's 47, was do you want to
lower interest rates? And this is
someone that has a proven track record
that he didn't want to lower interest
rates during the great financial crisis.
So there are other things that obviously
Kevin Walsh had to change his views on
when he was presenting to the president.
The issue is what does he do when he
then is at the top of the Federal
Reserve
>> once he gets around the table and has to
make his argument over what to do with
policy that first meeting at the halfway
point of this year. Equity futures on
the S&P 500 negative here but
recovering. We're down about a third of
1%. Coming up this time we'll catch up
with Jordan Jackson of JP Morgan as
market position for a new Fed share.
Brian Gardner of Stifer will join us on
the Senate confirmation process and Eric
Nelson of Wells Fargo with the dollar on
the rise. We begin this hour with
President Trump nominating Kevin Walsh
to be the next chair of the Federal
Reserve. With more, a man who's seen it
all is Mike McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, Worsh's
nomination is no surprise. He's been on
the short list for a couple of years, we
could say. In 2017, the president
thought about appointing him. He has
some strengths that Washington and Wall
Street are going to like. He has a
background at the central bank as you've
been mentioning. He was on the Fed from
2006 to 2011. He started his career at
Morgan Stanley and then moved on after
the Fed to Dukane Capital Management
working with Stan Denmiller. So he uh he
does have a lot of experience in both
areas. He is a harsh Fed critic and he
has a hawkish reputation as you've been
saying. But recently he's been talking
about how AI and the big Fed uh big uh
spending on uh capital equipment along
with the president's deregulatory
efforts will make it possible to have
faster growth with lower inflation. So
he may be able to sell the president on
interest rates coming down because of
that. He does want the Fed to
concentrate on inflation and he does
want a smaller balance sheet. So, I
don't think we're going to get QE from
him to affect the longer end. He says
the Fed's guilty of mission creep. Uh,
thinks they do too much and he thinks
Fed officials overcommunicate. He has
praised Mickey Bowman and her
deregulatory efforts, but is willing to
give up bank regulation, at least most
of it, if he becomes Fed chair. That may
be what appeals to the president is that
Worsh has been such a harsh critic and
he is willing to upset the apple cart
and perhaps blow up the Fed. Just last
year, he said this. The Fed's current
word wounds are largely self-inflicted
and its plot armor is showing its wear.
A strategic reset is necessary to
mitigate losses of credibility, changes
in standing, and most important, worse
economic outcomes for our fellow
citizens. So, uh, Worsh is not going to
come in and keep things status quo.
That's for sure. And also, it's worth
pointing out, and this is almost a
cliche joke, uh, that in his, uh, truth
social post, the president noted that
Kevin Walsh is quote unquote central
casting. He looks like a central banker,
which is the reason he chose uh Pal over
uh Janet Yellen back in 2017 is because
she was too short and didn't look like a
central banker. The president said
>> that didn't work last time. And I
wonder, Mike, whether it works this
time, I also want to ask you this. How
fair is it that we define this man by
what he said and how he felt about
policy at the time in the great
financial crisis given that it was that
long ago? And how are you thinking about
how credible this dovish twist is now in
the past year? Well, it's hard to
separate out the president's arguments
about lower interest rates from whom he
picks. And he said he was only going to
pick somebody who wanted lower interest
rates. But it is also possible that
Kevin Walsh's views have moderated and
that he does buy into the AI argument.
Remember, uh Chris Waller has made the
same argument. And as Fed officials come
into their jobs, especially the chairs,
they tend to adopt adapt to the
environment in which they find
themselves. And so it is not uh it's not
fair to say that just because he was
extremely hawkish, he will always be
extremely hawkish, but you do have to
keep in mind his primary concern for the
Fed is holding down inflation.
>> Mike McKe, appreciate your time, Mike.
Thank you, sir. More from Mike
throughout the hour on this decision. If
you are just joining us, a decision from
the president's official, his pick to
lead the Federal Reserve and take over
from Chair Pal is going to be the former
Fed Governor Kevin Walsh. If you want an
opinion this morning, here's one right
now. Neil Dutter of Renmack joins us now
for more. Neil, welcome to the program.
You've been talking about the prospect
of this happening for a while. Your
feelings this morning.
>> Um, I think you know my feelings, John.
I I think the president had a range of
better choices and he picked the worst
one in front of him.
>> What gives you confidence, Neil, that
that's actually going to bear out during
his purported tenure should he get
confirmed given the fact that he has had
a different rhetoric over the past
couple of months and frankly convince
President Trump
Well, I mean, it's one thing to convince
President Trump. Um, I think it's going
to be quite another to convince the
members around the FOMC table. Um, you
know, Mike McKe was talking about his
record during the financial crisis,
which just to remind everyone is
horrific. um
because you know I think anyone would
know at the time what to have done and
yet he was worried about inflation even
as unemployment was rising. Um not
exactly what you'd expect to see from
the greatest jobs president that God
ever invented. Um that being said, it's
not so much that he's hawkish, it's that
he's always hawkish and always typically
when he's wrong, he's wrong in the same
direction. I mean, what you want in
these positions is someone that has an
open mind, that's a flexible thinker.
Um, so I think his newfound dovishness
looks very suspicious and um, you know,
maybe that's one reason why Powell
sticks around past May. If he does,
he'll be a weak Fed chair. And even if
he doesn't, he'll probably be a weak Fed
chair because, you know, look, the FOMC,
it's bigger than one person. Uh, you
can't just get in there and exert your
will. uh there are things that he can do
with re with respect to reforming the
institution. Um but you know again I
have my I mean has he run a large thing
before? I mean you know I have my
suspicions about whether he's actually
able to affect that outcome also. So um
you know we'll see. Um you know again as
I've said before he's also he's an about
free trader. Uh you know he used to
criticize politicians for not pursuing
free trade deals. And one of his other
criticisms of course is that uh you know
the Fed tends to um encourage fiscal
irresponsibility through their interest
rate policy. Um but of course the
federal government's been fiscally
irresponsible despite high interest
rates. So I think he has the causality
backwards really. Uh it wasn't so much
that um uh you know interest rates were
low uh not because the Fed was trying to
bail uh the Fed the federal government
out but interest rates were low because
the economy was weak.
>> Neil, you said something there that I
want to follow up on. You think that the
nomination of Kevin Worsh makes it more
likely that Jerome Powell stays on as a
governor after his Fed chair term is up.
Is that correct?
>> Yeah, I don't see why that wouldn't be
the case. I mean um nothing about this
process has been normal and you know as
I say I mean you can talk about the sort
of golden age and like maybe Kevin Walsh
believes in the golden age um but you
know look I mean he's again he's been
hawkish his entire public career okay um
and he's known for making good economic
calls he is not so again like this is
all you can't just go in there and say I
think we're in a golden age the proof of
the pudding is in the eating and uh the
people around that table are going to
want evidence before they sign up for
something like that, which is why I
think it's unlikely that you can just
expect them to go in there and deliver a
series of interest rates cut.
>> So Neil, that's the analysis. When
you're thinking about markets and what
you tell clients this morning on how to
act accordingly off the back of that,
what would you suggest?
>> I mean, I think it's I mean, you you
can't expect uh Okay, so this is I think
of the four candidates that were out
there, I would say that Worsh was
probably the worst. Um, but that doesn't
mean that you just dump all your stocks
and punt the long long end of the uh,
you know, the treasury market right
away. I mean, it it takes time for these
things to show up. I think the primary
risk is that the president risks getting
duped. And that's because if you are
able to engineer a series of rate cuts
up front, the risk with Worse is that
you may have to take them back
aggressively later. Um, you know, when
have you ever seen Kevin Walsh make the
dovish case for monetary policy and
convince someone of that outcome?
>> Well, it sounds like, Neil, he was able
to do that with the president actually
in the Oval Office. What do you make of
the process now? We're going to have to
wait and see play out in Congress. Do
you think he actually sticks based on
what we're hearing from members of
Congress like Senator Tom Tillis, if
this takes a very long time and the
market continues to push back?
I mean, that's one potential. I mean,
um, you know, Tillis has said that he's
going to slow down the nomination
process because there's an open
investigation. So, we see we need to see
what happens with that with that
investigation. Um, but I would just say
that perhap I mean, I'm not a political
analyst, an Marie, as you know, you are.
Um, but I would say that there's
probably time for push back from the
president's base. Uh, you know, a member
of the uh the MAGA movement, Kevin Worsh
is not. I mean, let's be clear. He works
at a traditional GOP Republican
establishment think tank um named for a
president that presided over the Great
Depression,
>> right? So, you think
>> potential so so there there there's, you
know, I suspect there's time for the
president's uh base to do to Kevin Walsh
what they did to Harriet Meyers um back
in the day,
>> right? And she never made it to the
Supreme Court because of that push back
that Congress saw on President Bush. Do
you actually think given how you had
interpreted Kevin Worsh and his body of
work over the course of the years that
actually for what Trump wants he better
off just be sticking with J of Jay
Powell type?
>> Well, I think you know look it's it's
hard to I mean I think from the
beginning of this process uh the
Treasury Secretary has been very wise to
kind of avoid putting his thumb on the
scale. Um that's what Minutuchin did and
it cost him dearly. But if the goal is
to put your prince on the Fed, the way
to have done that would have been to
elevate Christopher Waller, someone who
has a track record of convincing his
colleagues to the dovish position while
simultaneously showing a pension for
reforming the institution. I mean, it's
not like Christopher Waller um is
someone that was unable to kind of kind
of um you know, knock heads a little bit
within the Fed uh is my understanding.
Um, but that would also have freed up
two seats, right? Because the likely
outcome at that point would have been
would have been that Powell would have
gone. Uh, and so then you you have
another seat you could fill in addition
to the seat that uh that is going away
this week, which is the Myron seat. So,
um, the way to, you know, you have to
think about it like the Supreme Court in
a way. The way to get the policy and,
you know, remake the institution your
image is to get your people on there. Um
that seems at the margin I think a
little bit harder to do uh with wars
>> and Neil just finally if this doesn't go
well and let's see how it plays out but
if it doesn't go well who does the
president get to blame this time.
>> Well I mean I it's himself. I mean it
you know the Fed job under Trump is a
thankless job admittedly. I mean because
you're going to sort of get his eyeire
very quickly. Um so I I I understand why
there's a reluctance among some to want
to do it. Um, but as I said, I mean,
there's a there were a lot of good uh
candidates out there. Um, you know, um,
some of them I didn't like, some of them
I did, but uh, you know, I think uh, of
the lot, I would say, you know, for most
of the people I talked to, but even just
more importantly for myself, I think
that Worsh was the the least favorite of
the uh, of the candidates being thrown
out there.
>> Neil, we respect your opinion. Thanks
for jumping on for us. Thank you, sir.
No doubt there of Renmack on the
president's decision just moments ago.
Let's get you an update on that and more
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahara. Hi, Yahihara.
>> Exactly, John. As you guys have been
discussing, it's official. President
Donald Trump nominating Kevin Wars to
replace Jay Powell as the chairman of
the Federal Reserve. In a post on Truth
Social, the president's writing, I have
known Kevin for a long period of time
and have no doubt that he will go down
as one of the great Fed chairman, maybe
the best. Meanwhile, shares of Verizon
rising 2.7%
in the pre-market. The company reporting
fourth quarter earnings that beat Wall
Street estimates. Verizon also adding
its biggest gain in mobile phone
subscribers since 2019. It expects to
add up to 1 million phone customers this
year. And US law enforcement is
investigating allegations by former Meta
contractors that company personnel can
access WhatsApp messages. sources
telling us here at Bloomberg the claims
have been examined by the Commerce
Department and separately in a
whistleblower complaint to the SEC. Meta
markets the app as having endtoend
encryption. Dutch Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, the president tapping
Kevin Walsh to lead the Federal Reserve.
Brian Gardner of Stel joins us next.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Two-day slide on the S&P.
Could become day three. We're down by
4/10en of 1% on the S&P 500. Down by 3/4
on the Russell in a bond market. Twos,
tens, 30s. Shaping up as follows. Yields
up just a little bit. It's not a big
move. Up about a basis point. The long
end of a curve for all the talk of Kevin
Walsh being a hawk. Yields are lower at
the front end. We're down by two basis
points to 350 347. And in foreign
exchange, we're shaping up as follows.
For the dollar, DXY just about positive
on the session so far. Positive by a
tenth of 1%. Neil Dutter with us just
moments ago from Renmack publishing
this. Kevin Walsh risk duping the
president of the United States. And it's
for all the arguments that he just put
out there that ultimately he uh
potentially will be a lot more hawkish
than what he has put himself out as. I
will say that in the near term, the
reason why short-end rates are lower
could be because of some of the opeds
and other arguments that Kevin Worsh has
made about why you can cut rates at a
time of growth because of technology.
Over the long term, focus on the balance
sheet. That has been a huge issue for
him in the past. Has that changed going
forward? If you're the president though
and you read Neil Da's note, this is
absolutely brutal. A member of the MAGA
movement, he is not. He's a free trader
that comes from traditional cookie
cutter Republican think tank named for a
president that preside over the Great
Depression. This is the best that
President Trump could do, he asked.
Worsh would make sense if Mitt Romney
were president. Of course, Mitt Romney.
This president continues to call a rhino
Republican a name only. This is a brutal
attack on the president's pick. I don't
think this is the consensus view this
morning given how fired up Neil is. But
this last line here with Senator Tillis
slowing down the nomination process due
to an open investigation. There is still
time for serious push back from the
president's populist base.
>> Yeah. So this is sort of the I guess
reason why you're not seeing much
reaction is cuz there's a lot of
daylight between now and the
confirmation of a Kevin Walsh as the
next Fed chair. I will say though there
is a signal here regardless of who gets
in and that is that President Trump
cares more maybe about the appearance of
the person not just in the physical way
but also in terms of how he is going to
appeal to markets going forward. So it's
not going to necessarily be some of the
most dovish and uh less Fed independent
cases that people are putting out there.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Our top story under
Sylvanas this morning, President Trump
picking Kevin Walsh to succeed Jay Pal
as the next chair of the Federal
Reserve. Walsh will need to be confirmed
by the Senate which may not be an easy
process. Jonathan Tamari of Blimpberg
government joins us now for more. So
Jonathan, the process begins. Here's the
nomination. What's next?
>> So the nomination's first stop is at the
Senate Finance Committee and that is
really where the complications uh lie
because one of the senators there, Tom
Tillis, Republican North Carolina, says
that he will not allow any nominations
to go forward as long as this
investigation into the Fed is ongoing.
and Republicans have a one seat majority
on that committee. So the math very
easy. If Tillis opposes and no Democrats
cross over, they can't move that
nomination. So we're going to need to
see what happens with that. You know,
Tillis has raised concerns in the past
about other nominees, but he's no longer
running for reelection. So his political
calculus is different. He's shown a
measure of independence. He's been one
of the first Republicans to call for
Christy Nolm, the Homeland Security
Secretary, to be fired. And so he's
pretty much fired up and liberated by
not having election concerns.
>> And Marie, we talked about it with
Senator Tillis directly last week. He
said very clearly, "It's not about the
man, it's about the process."
>> Right? And that process can't go through
without him. And actually, Senate
Majority Leader John Thoon was asked
about this last night on the capital was
asked, "Do you think we're going to be
able to see a new Fed chair come to rise
without Senator Tillis?" Probably not.
You can't confirm him without Senator
Tillis. So, Senator Tom Tillis is
literally the hurdle and the roadblock
standing in the way of really having a
very quick nomination process when it
comes to the Fed chair.
>> Jonathan Tamari down in Washington.
Jonathan, thank you. Brian Gardner of
Steve writes the following. Walsh has a
history of hawkish views which run
contrary to Trump's goal. Brian joins us
now for more. Brian, that begs the
question, how did we get here?
>> You know, I think you have to tip your
hat to Kevin Walsh. I I think the the
politics that went into this, there was
a campaign. Um, basically I think he ran
a very good campaign to get the job. I
mean, we've had a series of stories and
news leaks criticizing the other
candidates and I'm not, you know, I have
no personal knowledge who was behind
that, but who's the last man standing?
Kevin Walsh. So, you you you would
assume that that there were some
fingerprints on the effort that went
into knocking down the other candidates.
And let's not forget, I mean, with
Donald Trump, personal relations matter
a lot. and Worsh's father-in-law and
Trump went to college together and are
bis have business relationships going
back decades. So there's always that
angle that I think people overlook. You
know, personality matters for Trump.
Remember a lot of a lot of the nominees
that have not worked out for him over
time, he will turn and and afterwards
they'll say, "Well, that person
interviewed great." I think Kevin Walsh
interviewed great. You know, Brian, I'm
glad you brought that up because also
there was a recent story about how Ron
Lauder had this deal with Ukraine. Of
course, as the Trump administration is
trying to make sure that investors are
there, if they get a peace deal to
rebuild that country, are you saying
potentially Kevin Walsh is in this
position because his proximity to power,
not exactly how he thinks about the
Federal Reserve?
>> I I think it's a factor. I mean, I I I
can't rank what the factors are, but you
know, kind of reiterating my earlier
point with with Donald Trump, personal
relations matter. He wants to trust you.
He wants to know you, and he he just
wants to feel good about you. And that
personal connection that he has through
Lauder, I think matters. I think
mattered in the process. I think it gave
Walsh an uh you know an advantage that
some other candidates like a Rick Reer
who did not have personal connections to
the White House and to the president
does not have a long history with the
president. I I think that helped Walsh
hurt Reer. I think it hurt Christopher
Waller a little bit quite frankly. Again
I have no personal knowledge of this but
there doesn't seem to be a close
personal connection with Waller and the
president and I think that hurt. there
was a personal connection is a personal
connection with Kevin Hasset. Um but you
know again some of the some of the
stories that came out were less than
flattering about what the how the Fed
may operate under Hasset, how the
markets react and and maybe Trump took
took note of that.
>> You said how the market reacts. Brian,
do you think that the move that we're
seeing this morning is enough to make
President Trump start to think, did I
make the right choice?
>> No. Um, I mean, I I unless something
changes during the confirmation process.
Um, but the the immediate market
reaction is not, Lisa, if the immediate
market reaction was enough, we'd have,
you know, policy whipsawing all over the
place. Yes, the the the White House
clearly looks at the markets, but I
don't think there's always a knee-jerk
reaction to it. Let's see what happens
over the next couple of months. Let's
see what happens with the confirmation
process, how that plays out. You know,
as has been discussed, it could be
lengthy. There's going to be some
political drama around it. It's not just
Tom Tillis. Ran Paul is going to have a
problem on the Senate floor if we get
there. Um, this this is going to be a
very interesting uh uh confirmation
process and maybe something during that
time pops up that gives uh the president
time to pause, reconsider. Again, it's
highly highly speculative. It is highly
unlikely, but it's not impossible.
>> Brian Gardner of Stateful. Brian, thank
you. Appreciate it. A top story this
morning, the president making the call,
finally choosing his man. It will be the
former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh to take
over the Federal Reserve from Chair Pal.
And perhaps chair pal will actually head
to the exit in May.
>> Yeah. Although what we heard from Neut
is it actually might make it less
likely. So we shall see. I will say this
is a market and you've mentioned this
before, John, that is remarkably calm.
And I can't emphasize that enough. Yes,
you are seeing a knee-jerk reaction, but
it is incredibly muted given some of the
rhetoric that we've heard this morning.
The story isn't that bonds are selling
golf, it's that they're not really
selling golf at all. Yields are run by a
basis point or two at the long end of
the curve. Up next, Jonah Jackson of JP
Morgan.
If you're just tuning in, welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P
pulling back by 4/10en of 1% on the S&P
500. We're down by about a half of 1% on
the NASDAQ, down by 8/10en of 1% on the
Russell. Kevin Walsh is the president's
man. His nomination to be the next chair
of the Federal Reserve. The confirmation
process could stall. We've talked about
that extensively throughout this
morning. Senator Tillis is not going to
entertain this conversation until the
DOJ investigation into the Federal
Reserve is wrapped up and goes away.
That could delay things in the bond
market. 2-year, 10 year, 30-year bond
yields look like this. Up by a basis
point on 10 to 424. Up by three. Call it
three. We'll round it up on 30s to 490.
In foreign exchange, the dollar just a
little bit stronger throughout this
morning. These aren't big moves. I
understand there's important
conversation to have about who Kevin
Walsh is, what he stands for, how he'll
govern. If these arguments will be
persuasive to the committee, but right
now, these aren't big market moves.
>> So, does this mean that a this is a
market that doesn't think that fed rate
cuts are necessary? as you were
commenting in some of the breaks which I
think is actually a really important
point or is this a market that is
comfortably or uncomfortably numb that
is not responding to anything and that
ultimately there is lack of conviction
and a lack of edge that you're seeing in
markets that's leading to this very
narrow range which is it and I think
that's going to be really important test
when it comes to the process in
Washington the DOJ investigation really
needs to get wrapped up in order for
this individual to take over the helm at
the Federal Reserve but once it does I
don't see him having issues actually on
the floor in the Senate Banking
Committee. He's already been confirmed
once before in 2006 and that was a voice
vote basically unanimous different time
just for governor position. There'll be
a lot of attention on this, but he will
actually sail through confirmation. The
problem is we cannot speculate on when
that confirmation process will begin.
>> That's why also given his experience, I
kind of take the other view to Neil Data
of REMAC. I respect his views. They're
important. But ultimately for Chairman
P, why would he stick around? Former Fed
governor selected to lead the committee.
>> He's conventional
>> and he's going to stick around. And that
doesn't add up to me.
>> It just the only question that I have is
how did he convince President Trump and
will that Kevin Walsh please stand up
and let's see who he is when he actually
gives that speech
>> in the confirmation process. Yeah,
that'll be um that'll be interesting.
>> You can you can send that. You know,
>> then the price action might be a little
bit
>> I think that that's actually what people
are waiting for.
>> But for now, things are pretty calm.
Let's get your morning movers with
Yahara Ann Aran. She joins us now for
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. A lot of earnings to get
through and we start with Chevron and
Exxon. A lot of anticipation going into
these earnings because of Venezuela and
falling oil prices. Both uh Exxon is
down 1.8%. Chevron slightly in the green
despite both companies beating
estimates. It was higher production that
was able to offset those falling crude
prices. Meanwhile, moving on to Verizon.
Those shares are up 2.3%
in the pre-market as it shows early
signs of a turnaround under a new CEO.
The company posted its biggest gain in
wireless subscribers since 2019, adding
more than 600,000 in the fourth quarter,
well above expectations. And a lot of
that having to do with promotions. And
we end on American Express. Credit card
company shares are falling 2.8% after
the company missed on earnings
expectations. Even as consu customer
spending jumped, build business rose 9%
to $445 billion, beating estimates. And
the CEO did have something to say about
President Trump's cap on credit card
rates, saying it would spark a pullback
in credit like we've never seen before.
John
>> Yara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Some of our top stories for you on our
radar this morning. Amazon in talks to
invest up to 50 billion in open AI. The
chat GBT maker is seeking up to 100
billion in new capital from investors.
The Wall Street Journal also reporting
OpenAI is preparing for a fourth quarter
IPO. Elsewhere, President Trump and
Senate Democrats reaching a tentative
deal to avert a partial government
shutdown. A lapse in funding is still
likely to occur as the House, which must
approve any changes to the package,
won't return to Washington until Monday.
And finally, President Trump tapping
former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh to lead
the Federal Reserve. Trump posting on
truth social in the last hour that he
has no doubt the Walsh will go down as
one of the greatest Fed chairman and
also the important piece that he's out
of quote central casting.
>> Look, this is something people have been
talking about a bit tongue and cheek and
yet that was in his uh social media post
on this release. There is a big question
not only about whether he will go
through but what his influence and stamp
will be on the Federal Reserve and I
think that the key question really has
to do with current Fed chair Jay Powell
whether he stays and what the
composition looks like how much it is up
for grabs given some of the changes in
the churn that could be under the
surface. I do think that Chairman Powell
will go now. This person is born of the
Fed. That's where he got his start
really working in terms of monetary
policy. He was a governor. I know he
left. But I think it is a conventional
pick enough for Chair Powell to say,
"I've had enough. I've been doing this a
long time. I'm now going to go and
retire." It does make it a little bit
more interesting though because had they
gone for Governor Waller they would have
to Neil Duta's point had more chances to
really shape the direction of travel at
the Federal Reserve because this is a
deliberative body. Now a lot of weight
is going to be put on Kevin Worsh if he
now has this newfound ideas about where
inflation should be and where monetary
policy and interest rates should be.
He's going to have to convince everyone
else and that's going to be a hard task.
A lot of people publishing this morning.
This came from Pantheon Macro just
dropped into my inbox and I think this
will resonate with a lot of people in
the market right now. It's reasonable to
assume that he told the president he
favors reducing interest rates today.
Obviously, otherwise he would not have
been nominated. But, and this is the key
line, once on the board, it's not
certain how Mr. Walsh will vote. Lots of
people are grappling with the same issue
this morning,
>> which is the reason why you're seeing on
the front end, yields coming down just a
little bit and on the long end, yields
going up just a little bit because
people are saying, "Okay, this is
somebody who doesn't like the balance
sheet and longer term might take a more
hawkish approach." The moves are muted.
We have no idea what exactly will
transpire in terms of who will be the
next Fed chair, whether he'll get
through and what he will act like.
Still, there is skepticism that 18 years
does not change a person with some
pretty uh established views. So Kevin
Hassid was also in the running. The
president saying this on social media
just moments ago. There was great
speculation that highly respected Kevin
Hassid was going to be named chairman of
the Fed and a great chairman he would
have been. But quite honestly, he's
doing such an outstanding job working
with me and my team at the White House
that I just didn't want to let him go.
Kevin is indescribably good. So as the
expression goes, if you can't do better,
don't try to fix it. Thank you, Kevin,
for such a great job. The president just
moments ago.
>> And I spoke to Kevin Hassid in Davos and
he said it was really sweet how the
president came out and said, I saw you
on TV. you're doing such a good job. If
Kevin Hasset really wanted to be the Fed
chair, he was actually working in the
wrong job before potentially being
elevated because he was going out and
really had to tout the president's
economic agenda. And for some that meant
he was just too close to the sun and
would potentially be taking too many
cues from the Oval Office if he were to
go over to the Fed and not thinking more
independently.
>> Let's start our top story. Here's the
market action. Equities edging lower as
Marcus digests the president's
announcement that Kevin Walsh is his
nomination the nominee for the next
chair of the Federal Reserve. Joining us
now is Jordan Jackson of JP Morgan Asset
Management. Jordan, good morning. Good
to see you.
>> Good to be here.
>> What has this changed for you?
>> Not a whole lot, right? Uh I think you
you hear this from Pal. He very much
trusts the structure of the Federal
Reserve, right? The staggered nature of
governors, the rotating bank presidents.
you know, one person coming in who maybe
on the margin is a little bit more
hawkish around balance sheet, maybe a
little bit more dovish around rate
policy, um, is going to really change
the narrative all that much. And that's
why you're not seeing a very muted,
you're seeing a very muted move, uh, in
the bond market.
>> Do you think people are waiting to
understand exactly which Kevin H this is
Kevin W, excuse me, I'm getting my
Kevin's mixed up this morning. Tweets
are flying or truth socials are flying
and I'm getting them all mixed up. I
mean, do you think that this really is a
sort of wait and see what the rhetoric
looks like from a new Kevin W? I I think
so. I think what's going to be more
important is how the economy evolves
over the first half of the year. We're
looking at stimulus. Markets are
anticipating pretty strong growth
throughout the year. That momentum
continue to carry uh through the first
half of the year. Maybe we get some
stickiness and inflation on the back of
that as well. And so that's really
what's going to continue to drive the
narrative for for for rates. This is
important and this is something that
John Stoz uh talked about earlier this
morning that there is a sense that
ultimately this is not a very rates
sensitive economy and that right now
this is not an economy that needs rate
cuts and it is driven by something
entirely different. So are you saying it
doesn't matter or on the margins could
it matter for what the composition of
the potential gains look like? In other
words, go back to big caps and maybe
stay away from the small cap rally that
we've seen over the past month or so.
No, I I I I certainly you have to be
sensitive to the idea that this economy
is is less sensitive to interest rates.
When we were at 5 and a half% on Fed
funds, the economy didn't slide into a
recession, right? Even with sort of
above neutral on balance over the last
24 months or so, the economy has
continued to humble on quite quite
nicely despite uh softening in the labor
markets uh as well. So, you know, I
think um you know, from a tactical
perspective, we sort of like this kind
of rotation that we're seeing over the
next 3 to six months. strong growth uh
Fed still biased towards easing to some
extent supporter for the small cap trade
but I think we got to really focus in on
the fundamentals uh in that part of the
market.
>> I know the market moves are small this
morning but is the Fed still biased
towards easing when you see these market
moves and it's because the market is
still trying to digest if this is the
hawk Kevin H uh Kevin Moore to be the
top of the Fed. What was interesting
what Powell explicitly said uh at the
FOMC meeting is that when you look at uh
uh uh Fed governors and and and members
who submit uh outlook for interest
rates, there's not a single member who
thinks rates should be higher, right? So
there's still this explicit bias, right,
across uh voting members that the next
move is going to be a rate cut. It's
just a question of when uh and and the
magnitude of rate cuts that we get.
>> When do you think it it's going to be?
>> I'm agreeing with the market. Uh I think
we don't really see a move until uh the
middle of the middle of the year. Um it
starts to get a little bit tricky in
terms of the committee not wanting to
look political around uh midterm
elections. So maybe this could be a July
skip in September next move either in
November or December. U but I think you
know we're probably looking at still one
to two over over the second half of the
year.
>> Do you think this story has put a floor
in the US dollar for now?
>> Um I think so. some of the repricing
that we should see in rate in rate cut
expectations maybe going from two to to
one perhaps uh puts a little bit of
upward uh movements on the dollar. I
think you're seeing obviously the dollar
move a little bit higher uh to start the
year commodity selling off so maybe
we're seeing a little bit of profit
taking in the gold silver trade as well.
Um I think what's really going to be
important though from an investor
perspective is the shape of the curve.
We still very much believe in the
steepening out right but this is a twist
steepener not a bull steepener and
that's what we're seeing playing in the
morning. long rates moving higher, front
end still modestly lower. So where do I
want to invest? Well, I want to invest
in the fullcrumb. That's the two to four
year two to three year part of the curve
from a duration standpoint.
>> Jordan, good to see you. Thank you, sir.
Jordan Jackson there of JP Morgan Asset
Management. The belly of the curve
unmoved so far this morning. Looking out
to 10, yields up by two basis points,
30s higher by about three. Pretty muted
price action given the gravity of the
story and the conversation this morning.
Let's give an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief with
us for more. Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi John. It's the big reveal. President
Donald Trump finally announcing his pick
to replace Jay Powell as chair of the
Federal Reserve. The president
nominating former Fed Governor Kevin
Worsh in a post on Truth Social. The
president's writing, "I have known Kevin
for a long time and have no doubts he
will go down as one of the great Fed
chairman." Meanwhile, President Trump
suing the Treasury and IRS for at least
$10 billion over an unauthorized
disclosure of his tax returns to the
press. the president, his sons, and the
Trump Organization filing the suit,
which seeks damages for the alleged
unauthorized disclosure, which was based
on leaked data published by the New York
Times. And India's probe into the deadly
crash of a Boeing 787 jet last June, is
increasingly focusing on deliberate
pilot action as the probable cause.
sources telling us here at Bloomberg,
investigators have ruled out mechanical
failure and not found evidence of
sabotage. A final report on the causes
of the crash is expected to be issued by
June. That's your Bloomberg break. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next on the program, President Trump
tapping Kevin Walsh for Fed chair.
>> I think the president had a range of
better choices and he picked the worst
one in front of him. Not exactly what
you'd expect to see from the greatest
jobs president that God ever invented.
The conversation up next with Eric
Nelson of Wells Fargo live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Equities
negative by 4/10en of 1% on the S&P 500.
On the NASDAQ, we're down by about 0.6.
And the bond market, yields bleeding a
little bit higher at the long end of the
curve. The president has named his man.
What's going to happen with the process?
The senator from Massachusetts with
something to say. What's new? Here we
go. That's not what I meant. I mean like
what's new? What's she going to say?
What's new? Oh, I thought you meant
what's new cuz she had something to say
about the Fed and Trump.
>> Say something like that.
>> Should we go to the statement?
>> Absolutely not. It's too much.
>> I would never be that rude.
>> Okay. Well, let's go to the statement.
Quote, "No Republican purporting to care
about Fed independent should agree to
move forward with this nomination till
Trump drops his witch hunts of the
current chairman of the Federal Reserve
and Governor Lisa Cook." Well, Senator
Warren, you should know this. Senator
Tom Tillis, your friend on the Senate
Banking Committee, was on with us last
week in Davos and he said the Senate has
a role to play in this. And for Senator
Tillis, it's about the process. He's
going to be fine, I imagine, with Kevin
Worsh, but it's the process. And that's
why we have no date on when Kevin
Worsh's confirmation hearing can even
begin because the DOJ is still
investigating the Federal Reserve. And
according to reports, the Federal
Reserve is really dragging out the
information the DOJ is requesting in
those subpoenas.
>> That's a new statement.
>> But she does have a lot to say about the
Fed.
>> And that's called pulling on a closed
door, right? The opposite of pushing on
an open door. That's very true. Like Tus
has already done that.
>> Yeah. Mr. Tell us, senator, tell us.
Please, please call in. We would love to
hear from you and explain how long this
process is going to take and what you
need to see.
>> I'll message him in a moment. Try and
make it happen.
>> Yeah. You know, he watches Bloomberg
surveillance at the gym in the Senate.
The gym always has Bloomberg on and then
one other channel that changes every so
often. So, he's always watching us.
Senator, thanks for letting on the
treadmill.
>> Give us a ring.
>> Can I go now?
>> Yeah.
>> Thanks. All right. Under Savannah this
morning, President Trump tapping Kevin
Walsh for Fed share.
I think the president had a range of
better choices and he picked the worst
one in front of him. His record during
the financial crisis which just to
remind everyone is horrific. Um
because you know I think anyone would
know at the time what to have done and
yet he was worried about inflation even
as unemployment was rising. Um not
exactly what you'd expect to see from
the greatest jobs president that God
ever invented.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president picking former Fed governor
Kevin Walsh to replace J Pal as head of
the Federal Reserve. The president
writing this just moments ago on social
media that Christopher Waller, Rick
Reer, and others were interviewed for
the Fed position. They all would have
been outstanding and have a great and
unlimited future with Trump. Such
amazing talent in our country. Thank
you. Joining us now to discuss the
market reaction, Eric Nelson, FX
director at Wells Fargo. Eric, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Keep asking the same question. What does
it change? What does this change? Well,
I think the a lot of the focus has
actually been on the balance sheet,
right? Kevin Wars has historically
wanted a smaller balance sheet. Part of
that though is also deregulation and
let's be honest, less Treasury issuance.
I think the deregulation piece is
something he could fight for and I think
he will fight for and that's really
interesting. It's not being talked about
that much. The Treasury issuance is a
little bit difficult, right? That's
going to be a battle. I don't know that
he's necessarily going to win that
battle. Um, so in terms of actual
balance sheet impact, probably pretty
minimal early on. The Fed is increasing
its balance sheet this year. It's going
to be hard to reverse that. I think
maybe some D-Ray can can maybe offset
and and allow maybe some change in TAC
next year, but I think in terms of rate
policy, it does the pricing doesn't make
a lot of sense to me, right? We've got
things getting a little bit more stable,
very few cuts priced near-term, and then
all the cuts are in the second half. We
know why, right? People think someone's
going to come in and smash rates lower.
Yeah.
>> Is that Kevin Worsh? I'm not so sure.
>> Well, let me put you on the spot. If
he's there, first meeting's June, right?
If he's confirmed by then, how does he
vote? Do you even know?
>> I don't. I don't. I mean,
>> is that a data dependent? I don't. Or is
that I just don't because I don't know
what he stands for.
>> I I more the latter. I mean, I think
obviously we've seen lots of different
uh sort of stances from him in the past.
More recently, we know he's talking
about the AI productivity boom, which
let's be honest, lots of the Fed chair
candidates were talking about. The thing
for me is, doesn't that also raise our
star? Uh, so you know, is there really
an argument here to get rates much lower
on that? And I think at the end of the
day, regardless of where he votes, it's
a committee, right? We we've heard this
time and time again. There's a reason
for it. It's true. It's going to be hard
to get the whole committee on the side
if the data is getting better.
>> I'm just I find it remarkable. It seems
like Wall Street does not watch The
Bachelor. It seems like Wall Street's
not that interested in the Bachelor
because ultimately we're seeing this
sort of consolation prizes coming out
and the potential uh for significant uh
significant
changes at the Federal Reserve at the
same time the market saying eh not that
interested if it changes anything on the
margin. Is it more from the point of
view of the bond market or more in terms
of the dollar and the perception of Fed
independence going forward?
>> Well certainly one follows the other,
right? So FX is is very much taking its
cues mostly from the bond market. Um I
think if given that pricing and and
where that pricing is the moment there's
a a sort of realization I don't know
what it's going to take maybe it's the
data or just actually having that person
in the seat at some point that's going
to that perception is probably going to
change right especially if the data are
getting better and that'll feed through
to the dollar the question for me though
is that you know the dollar is not all
about what's happening in the US right
so I think tactically we're we're
getting long dollars here but looking
into the second half of the year look at
the European growth data this morning
right the trend here in global growth is
getting a little the better. So, I think
the t the dollar tactical long is a
short-term trade. The trade for the year
is still short dollars. We're just not
at best levels right now.
>> So, it seems like everyone is coming to
the table and saying that the Fed is
kind of irrelevant right now or not that
in terms of just driving price action
and if it were to stay where it is, the
markets wouldn't really change
significantly. Are you on that page?
>> I think we can get a decent move in
rates if that second half easing gets
priced out, right? There's 40 odd basis
points. That's that's a decent move.
that gets you, you know, two, three% on
the dollar. Is it going to completely
change the dollar trend? Probably not,
right? Unless you have some sort of
global growth shock. Maybe it's, you
know, things in China are still looking
a little bit shaky in terms of domestic
growth. I I could paint that narrative,
but I think the US, to your point, we're
not going to get hikes from the Fed. I
that would just shock me, right? So,
until that happens, I think it's hard to
get super excited about a trend in
stronger dollar.
>> When it comes to the dollar, though, I
mean, it happened just this week,
although it feels like decades ago. The
president did say he can make it go up
or down like a yo-yo and he pointed to
China and Japan how they devalue. Do you
think at his core President Trump wants
a weaker dollar because he sees how
important is for exports?
>> I think that I and he's been quite vocal
about that to be fair in the past, not
just recently, right? Um he's been sort
of making public comments about
particularly Asian currencies being too
weak for decades, right? question is can
he do anything about I mean he can
certainly do things like we had the the
Greenland threats last week um or was
that too honestly I've lost track of
time at this point um you know I think
the he certainly can do things like that
but at the end of the day the FX policy
is the perview of the Treasury and we
heard Scott Besson out right a couple
days ago saying we still have a strong
dollar policy we're not going to joint
G7 intervention anytime soon so that's a
good reminder that Trump can say all he
wants Bessent Treasury has the call
>> but the more the president talks about
this do you think if potentially leads
this year into being some sort of FX
war.
>> I don't only if the Treasury gets
involved. I think if if there is some
more explicit action I mean certainly
the US actually outright intervening in
even in dollar yen dollar Korea that
would be interesting. Joint G7
intervention totally different ballgame.
Um of course that also requires buyin
from the rest of the G7. Not sure we'll
get that. Um I also think that's a tail
risk. I I don't think that's necessarily
likely. So I think it's Trump comments
don't matter all that much in this
context. There is a sense just stepping
back and looking at the broader bond
market particularly at the long end.
It's been driven by global uh trends
what we've seen in Japan in particular
and this idea that there is so much debt
slashing around in the system that there
is going to be at some point a bit more
vigilante kind of exercises on the part
of long-term boners. At what point are
you expecting that to become a more
dominant narrative? We saw that for a
hot second with Japan, but do you think
that that's going to be a driver of a
lot of volatility for the remainder of
2026? I'm not I'm not so sure. I I think
I mean Japan certainly has its own very
unique bond market. There's been a lot
more foreign involvement there. A lot of
foreign hedge fund activity. Um I think
we've seen from global finance
ministries is actually moving more
towards short end and and belly
issuance, right? They're responding to
the weakness in the long end. And so
what that does is that puts more
pressure on short-end funding markets,
right? And some of these other
currencies, which is really a paradigm
shift. uh the buyer base in the long end
has completely changed and and I think
the fact that people are responding to
that gives me a little bit more comfort
that we're not going to see some massive
blowout steepener in some of these
countries.
>> What would you have to say to actually
get more interested in the Bachelor as
it plays out uh in the confirmation
edition?
>> I I just I wish that I had the uh the
central casting look uh to to get to get
to get the fed chair nod.
>> Your hair's fantastic. a a uh some
someday.
>> It's brutal that it's been reduced to
that, but ultimately the president's
encouraged the conversation, hasn't he?
>> I mean, he is at heart a television
producer uh at the at the most
incredible extreme.
>> Yeah. And Jim Biano and Mike McKe
brought up earlier, this was actually
something that hurt Janet Yellen. The
president actually thought she was too
short. I believe she's 5 foot and that
was actually part of an issue. But this
is someone you have to remember, this is
a president of the United States who was
the head of the apprentice. He does
think in terms of news cycles and how
people present on television.
>> Central bank communication is different
though. I remember people saying the
same thing about Chairman Powell and in
the early part of his first term in
those first years there were some
mistakes that were made. They said the
same thing about Christine Lagard. Who
would describe Madame Lagard as someone
who was an effective communicator. She
communicates all the time. She was not
good when she first got that job. I
think you have to raise the same
question about this individual too.
>> Yeah. just how high is the bar and how
much can he actually meet some of the
expectations given some of his past
rhetoric and that I think is what you're
seeing from a lot of the notes coming
out this morning.
>> Up next on the program we'll catch up
with Alexman of Barclays, Lindsay Pier
of Steve and Stephanie Roth of Wolf
Research and a whole lot more. or the
third Harold Blimbeck surveillance. Up
next,
where we are right now is a market that
has a lot of expectations baked in. and
earnings are at a record high and going
higher.
>> Wall Street is willing to bid your stock
higher if you're showing the topline
growth.
>> Earnings growth is going to be the big
lifeblood going forward. Stock prices
follow earnings.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> There's only one story on Wall Street
this morning. Live from New York City.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now.
Your price action, the scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500 down
by 4/10en of 1%. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by 0.6. In the bond market, pretty
muted price action so far. Yields up at
the long end by two, on 10, by three or
four, on 30s. A statement from the
president of the United States earlier
on this morning, nominating Kevin Walsh,
the former Fed governor to be the next
Fed chair, saying, "I've known Kevin for
a long period of time. Have no doubt
that he will go down as one of the great
Fed chairman, maybe the best."
>> Yeah. And right now there is a long
process between the nomination and the
confirmation. Nonetheless, there is a
real tell in the lack of market
reaction. Yes, you are seeing some uh
some moves, but they are fairly muted.
What this suggests, we've heard this
from a number of guests this morning.
This isn't a very interest rate
sensitive market. This isn't a market
that needs significant rate cuts to
continue to go and this isn't a Federal
Reserve that's front and center right
now. The question is the reaction
function going forward. And that's what
is going to ultimately be tested in
speeches and the confirmation process.
>> The Wall Street Journal editorial board
is out with their review. The grumpy old
men as the Treasury Secretary Scott
Bessant calls them. That's his words.
And they say this is President Trump's
best secondterm appointment. And because
he is an inflation hawk, it means that
he has more credibility with financial
markets and maybe make it easier for him
to be credible on the board to convince
them to cut interest rates.
>> Are we playing multi-dimensional chess
this morning? Is that what this I mean
100% obviously I mean it's Bachelor you
know gone extreme
>> honestly I mean look I think yes we're
going second and third derivatives
partly because we have no idea and so
people are trying to game out when this
will matter how this will matter how to
get an edge and this is an edgeless type
of moment where we don't understand the
process we don't understand exactly who
this person is in his new iteration we
don't understand what the necessity is
for this economy at this moment it was
what Kevin Worsh said in April last year
that I think probably stuck with the
president The Fed has acted more as a
general purpose agency of government
than a narrow central bank. If you want
to reform the Fed and the institution
and make sure they just stick to their
dual mandate and nothing else when it
comes to climate or other issues, maybe
this is your guy and that's what they're
leaning into this morning.
>> I'm sure the Treasury Secretary is happy
with that as well. Coming up this hour,
here's the lineup for you. We'll catch
up with Alex Holman of Barclays with
stocks aiming to avoid a third
consecutive day of losses. Lindsey
Prager of Steel is going to break down
the latest data for you at 8:30 Eastern
time alongside this man right here,
Senator Tom Tillis of North Carolina
joining the program in about 30 minutes
time on the process because the process
in Washington is the important piece of
this.
>> Yeah, the process is process is very
important because right now there's an
investigation into Jay Powell and the
Federal Reserve. There was a subpoena
from the DOJ. We do not have that
wrapped up yet. And Senator Tillis made
it very clear. The Senate Banking
Committee is not going to move. He is
going to be a hurdle until this is
wrapped up. So, while we may have the
pick for Kevin Walsh, when does this
actually get done? Until the DOJ wraps
that up, he cannot move forward with his
hearing.
>> We begin this hour with stocks slightly
lower. We're down by about 4/10en of 1%
after the president announced he's
nominating Kevin Walsh as the next Fed
chair. Bloom's Mike McKe joins us now
for more. Good morning, Mike. Good
morning, John. Well, you look at the
equity markets and you think about all
the things that the president's done in
the last couple of hours, threatening
Iran, threatening Canada with more
tariffs, threatening Cuba, uh is a lot
for them to digest, but the bond market
is reacting to Kevin Walsh and
relatively mildly, but we are seeing a
steepening of the curve. The dollar
weakening a little bit. Uh he's a
well-known quantity on Wall Street and
he is accepted as an inflation hawk.
Went to Stanford, graduated Harvard Law.
He'd be the second lawyer in a row to
run the Fred uh career at Morgan
Stanley. Then went to the White House
National Economic Council, was nominated
as the youngest Fed Governor ever in
2006 by President George W. Bush. Since
then, uh since he left the Fed 2011,
he's been working for Stan Denmiller, Ed
Dukane. So, he does have a lot of ties
to Wall Street. And I think you'll find
that people on Wall Street will be
generally supportive uh of the idea that
he will do what's good for them. But
Walsh Walsh has made it clear he thinks
the Fed should concentrate on inflation.
And even if he's uh looking to cut
rates, he's not going to let inflation
get out of control. He will talk about
that a lot. He does want a smaller
balance sheet, don't expect much uh in
the way of QE. Uh and he does think that
Fed officials overcommunicate. Not sure
he can put that genie back into the
bottle. Uh he's willing to give up some
aspects of bank supervision, too,
because he thinks the Fed does too much.
So there's a lot there for the president
to like in terms of deregulation and in
terms of cutting the Fed down to size.
The big questions are going to be what
he does about inflation. He wants
operational independence for the Fed,
but is willing to work with Treasury
areas they can cooperate on. Maybe a new
Treasury Fed accord. Uh how low should
interest rates go? He'll make the case
for cutting because AI gives you some
room to do that if uh you get higher
productivity. But I don't think he'll
push it too much. Uh he'll let it
organically unfold as the economy gets
better.
>> Mike McKe, I've got one question and not
about Kevin Walsh. It's about Chairman
Pal. He was asked about this in the news
conference. You were there. His thoughts
now on staying longer beyond May on the
committee following this pick. Does that
move the dial? It's hard to say because
while Kevin Walsh does have
institutional credibility and is an
something of an institutionalist having
worked at the Fed, he does want to make
a lot of changes. So does the chair,
current chair stick around to shepherd
some of those changes and sand off the
rough edges or does he say that Worsh is
enough of a conventional pick that he
feels like he can leave? And beyond Jay
Powell, we've got questions about uh
whether or not the vice chair uh will
leave, Philip Jefferson, or whether or
not Michael Bar will leave. And so the
President Trump could get a lot of seats
to fill if they feel that Worsh leaves
the Fed in good hands.
>> My McKe, thank you, sir. Just learning
this from the Republican senator who we
will speak to directly in about 25
minutes time. Senator Tillis posting
this on social media on Kevin Walsh will
oppose the confirmation of any Fed pick.
My position hasn't changed. Does go on
to say though that Walsh is a qualified
Fed nominee.
>> So it's not the person, it's the
process. So he's happy potentially that
this is Kevin Walsh. It is a credible
individual. I mean to be honest, all
those people that the president had to
choose from were all credible. Just
potentially they had different views on
monetary policy. Notably for Kevin
Walsh, the view is of course that he's
an inflation hawk. But the process
cannot happen until the DOJ
investigation is wrapped up and we have
no timeline for that zero.
>> We'll speak to the man himself at 8:30
Eastern time. Here's the view on Wall
Street this morning. Alex Alman of
Barclay's writing, "I think the market's
knee-jerk reaction is that he's a hawk,
whereas it's easy to forget that people
can change their tune. Every new Fed
share gets tested by the market when
they come into the seat." Alex joins us
now for more. Alex, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Do you expect this man to be tested?
>> Absolutely. I think that the status quo
is right now we've got no sign of
recession on the horizon. Growth is
good. Uh but inevitably
central bankers get tested during
periods of crisis and so uh a lot of
people hawk back to Kevin Walsh when he
how his reactionary function was during
the financial crisis. I mean that was
almost 20 years ago. So the the behavior
that we would expect from someone any of
us 20 years ago versus today is going to
be dramatically different. But yes, I
expect him to be tested in the same way
that markets tested every single central
banker, new central bank.
>> I love this. I I really do. I I love the
sort of attitude coming from Wall Street
in terms of you can change. Life isn't
necessarily established 18 years ago. I
just wonder do you think that that's
what's driving the muted price reaction
or do you think that ultimately this is
just a less interest rate sensitive
market that really won't necessarily be
as Fed dependent until there is a
crisis?
>> I think there's partly that. There's
also I think other people have already
mentioned this adnauseium which is it's
a committee so he's still one individual
on the committee and I think the test is
really going to be him as a politician
his ability to influence other members
of the committee to actually get to the
place where say the president wants
interest rates to be. So there's there's
basically that
>> given the fact that he is somewhat more
establishment than some people were
speculating or fearing uh in terms of
all of the discussion around Fed
independence. Do you think that this
really uh reignites some of the faith in
the Fed's independence in a way that
brings flows back into the dollar?
>> I think it does. Yeah, I I really think
that uh there was a big question mark
around this whole dorization and there
were many inputs that were going into
that but ultimately the Fed question
mark was one of them and I think having
someone who sat on the board of
governors before who helped during the
financial crisis is credible on Wall
Street. I think actually all of those
elements check the boxes that Wall
Street needs to see right now. What if
Jay Powell decides to stay on? Does that
get a little bit more messy? Who's
really the Fed chair then?
>> I think it's very difficult to make a
make a call on that. I I would I would
sort of put that in a very left tail
event for the simple fact that it hasn't
happened before.
>> But what would be the market reaction?
I'm actually getting more people
messaging me saying that they think that
this is now a bigger risk.
>> Well, I think at the end of the day, J
Pal's been what he's worked in the Fed
for 14 years or so. Uh he's done two
terms if I'm not mistaken. He's got a
nice house down in uh down in Florida.
Uh I think it would be
>> with a private equity lifestyle to keep
up after not earning real money for a
decade plus.
>> I mean the chairman of the Federal
Reserve last time I checked when he got
asked how much money do you make a year
sitting in this role. I don't think it's
enough to necessarily maintain a
retirement lifestyle. So uh you know I I
personally of of the view that it would
be very very unusual for him to stay on.
>> He's a man of principle but ultimately
he can earn his year's salary in a
single speech and some.
>> Well this is sort of the promise right
going forward. Look, I think that this
is a key question and it has to go to
the composition of the committee and
whether that does change or whether it
stays the same and that ultimately might
change the market's response.
>> Look, I think it would be highly
controversial and viewed as highly
controversial if the Fed chair stayed on
given that this is a man that once
served on the board of governors at the
Federal Reserve. Highly controversial
and it would compromise the man himself
as well who's meant to be trying to lead
the Federal Reserve. Especially if, as
Alex was talking about, there is this
sense that Kevin Worsh as Fed chair is
credible and actually imbuss the Federal
Reserve with a sense of independence. To
break with past norm would actually
potentially undermine that more than add
to it. And I think that that might be a
key determination.
>> At the same time, J. Pal's legacy was
going to be the individual that saw
massive inflation and team transitory
and didn't get ahead of the hikes quick
enough. Now his legacy is well I'm
standing up for Fed independence against
President Trump and maybe that could be
a reason why he wants to make this a
little bit more difficult and he sticks
around a little bit longer. Have
>> you got a favorite trade this morning
off the back of this? What are you
coming up with with the team?
>> So I mean as we've just discussed from a
from a rates perspective I mean you look
at SFRZ6 I mean nothing's really moving
that dramatically. Our favorite trade
right now is really just twofold. Number
one is we're we're completely in love
with uh the industrial metals and
commodities trade uh which is obviously
unrelated specifically to this but this
I I would say if you to summarize
January we've had a lot of noise and not
necessarily much signal in terms of
thematic trades.
>> Does this take away some of the romance
from that love that you've got for that
trade?
>> You look at the price of silver this
morning but I I like I said specifically
focus on industrial metals. Our our view
is very very simply and I think we
mentioned this last time is that the US
is so deficient in industrial metals if
you're going through a decoupling in
China that's not today's story that's
not yesterday's story that's a 6 12
18month story the US needs to build its
own strategic reserves of industrial
metals to insulate itself against the
China decoupling that is just a very
good thematic as far as I'm concerned
and on the back of this on the wake of
it if we want to sort of talk about
specifically this if we're going back
into a stronger dollar view or at least
a dollar stabilization you should we be
back into more proquality trades and
within that we actually think the Mac 7
is interesting again I mean obviously
Microsoft was a fire sale yesterday but
then you also had meta results very
strong Apple overnight was was you know
robust u and then obviously we've got uh
we've got Amazon next week as well the
point being is that the MAX 7 have been
used as a funding source uh especially
in a dorization world I I need to put
money to work elsewhere in the world but
actually if that dollar stabilization
trade comes back in and actually we
think that Mag 7 still delivers that
earnings growth and it's a good trade.
>> Good to see you Alex.
>> Thank you. Thank you sir. Alex Alman
there of Barclays. Let's give an update
on news worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Back with us here's Yahara. Hey
Yahara.
>> Hi John. We start with our top story.
It's official. President Donald Trump
nominating Kevin Wars to replace Cha Jay
Powell as the chairman of the Federal
Reserve. in a post on truth social the
president writing I have known Kevin for
a long period of time and have no doubt
that he will go down as one of the great
Fed chairman maybe the best meanwhile
President Donald Trump says he will
impose a 50% tariff on aircraft from
Canada and descertify all Canadian-made
planes until Ottawa agrees to approve
certain jets manufactured by Gulfream
Aerospace. The president's also
threatening tariffs on Canadian goods if
it pursues a trade deal with China. And
Elon Musk is trying to consolidate his
empire. Sourc is telling us here at
Bloomberg SpaceX is considering a merger
with Tesla or XAI. Any deal could
attract interest from infrastructure
funds and Middle Eastern sovereign
investors and may require a large
financing component. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Up next, the morning cause plus Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research as President
Trump names Kevin Walsh as his Fed share
pick.
I think the president had a range of
better choices and he picked the worst
one in front of him. His record during
the financial crisis, which just to
remind everyone is horrific. Um
because, you know, I think anyone would
know at the time what to have done. And
yet he was worried about inflation even
as unemployment was rising. Um, not
exactly what you'd expect to see from uh
the greatest jobs president that God
ever invented.
>> That was some push back, some real push
back, pretty aggressive push back from
Neil Data of Renmack to the president's
pick of Kevin Walsh, the former Fed
governor, to take over from Fed chair
Jal and lead this Federal Reserve.
Equities at the moment, they're doing
okay. It's not a massive move. We're
down by a 4/10en of 1% on the S&P and
the NASDAQ. We're down by 0.5 in the
bond market. We've talked lots about
this move. Yes, the curve is steeper.
Yields are up by a basis point or two.
They're actually down at the front end
by a single basis point to 354.
>> Yeah, the biggest conclusion that uh
really one can come to this morning is
as a number of guests have said, this is
not a market that is dependent on Fed
rate cuts. The Fed is not necessarily in
game right now. They are on hold and
maybe rightly so, at least according to
the market. So the question is, is there
something that he could say, Kevin Walsh
could say that could potentially upset
the apple cart? This ultimately will be
the process and if we get a process,
will it go through in terms of
confirmation based on some of the
obstacles?
>> We'll spend a lot of time on that in
just a moment. For the market at the
moment, no drama, down by about 0.4%.
That's the price action. Let's get you
some morning calls as well. First off,
more research upgrading Broadcom to
outperform, saying it can't quote ignore
its growth and competitiveness.
Elsewhere, Raymond James upgrading
Sandis to outperform, citing upside from
AI demand and pricing. And finally, JP
Morgan raising his price tag on Apple to
325, saying its second quarter margin
forecast should reassure investors.
Let's turn back to this morning's top
story. President Trump picking Kevin
Walsh to succeed J Pal as the next chair
of the Federal Reserve. Walsh will need
to be confirmed by the Senate, which may
not be an easy process. Jonathan Tamari
of Bloomberg Government joins us now for
more. Jonathan, we've heard from some
key officials from the Senate Banking
Committee already this morning. What are
they saying?
So, we you just in the last few moments,
we've seen a statement of pretty strong
support from the chairman of the
committee, Tim Scott, out of South
Carolina, praising the pick. Um, on the
other hand, Elizabeth Warren, who's a
member of the committee, as you might
expect, is very fired up against the
pick and saying that Fed independence is
still at stake and that they need a
resolution uh uh to this federal
investigation into Jerome Powell. The
biggest voice, as we've discussed, is
Senator Tom Tillis of North Carolina.
He's a Republican on the committee. He's
not running for reelection. So, he's got
a measure of political independence. And
he says he will not support any Fed
nominees until that investigation is
concluded. He's got the power to
basically stop this in the committee
until he's satisfied.
>> Jonathan Tamari down in Washington DC.
Jonathan, thank you, sir. Tobin Marcus
of Wolf Research joins us now to build
on that conversation. And Tobin, I think
for a lot of people this morning,
they're concluding it's a matter of when
and not if. Is that the right way of
thinking about this? In terms of
confirmation, yes, I fully expect that
Kevin Orish will get through eventually.
I take Senator Tillis at face value that
he's going to need to be satisfied about
the resolution of the probe into Chair
Powell by DC US attorney Janine Piro
before letting anyone get through. So,
we never really thought there was a big
confirmation delta between any of the
candidates. You know, if you take Tillis
at his word, which I do, and you'll hear
from him soon, you need to resolve that
before you can get anyone through. Once
you do resolve that, I think you could
have gotten any of these four uh
shortlisters through.
>> Chinman, what do you make of the long
delay between when we heard we might get
the Fed nominee, when we got the Fed
nominee, and then the process that is
ahead of it? I'm just wondering if the
sequencing of this gives any sense of
the deliberation that went behind the
decision.
>> Yeah, I think it's been clear that none
of the candidates on this short list
were every, you know, checked every box
that President Trump had. He's been
emphasizing loyalty very strongly both
publicly and in private reports
throughout this process. That always
made us skeptical that it was going to
be reader. We figured that the two Kevin
were still um sort of the the picks that
made the most sense from his
perspective. And sure enough, that's
where he's landed. But, you know, Walsh
is the most hawkish of the people who
are in consideration. I think his
hawkishness on balance sheet issues in
particular. Um, you know, is a
straightforward upward pressure on the
long end of the yield curve, upward
pressure on term premia. That runs
counter to what President Trump wants.
And I think there's a lot of operational
questions about how that's supposed to
work anyway in terms of his balance
sheet views. So, he certainly has
drawbacks, but obviously had a lot to
recommend him in Trump's eyes. And I
think he was sort of chewing over a set
of imperfect options. Tobin, what I
understand from my reporting is that the
number one question this president has
had for everyone, whether it was the
first term or the second term, is will
you lower interest rates? That's all he
cared about. And this is an individual
that was talking about hiking during the
financial crisis. What is it that Kevin
War said or did that was able to get the
Oval Office to basically have faith in
him leading the Federal Reserve?
>> Well, Amarie, to quote the poets,
consistency is the hot goblin of little
minds. uh you know I mean the fact that
he had that view that was a long time
ago um his views may have authentically
evolved also he's obviously just been
angling for this job and his stated
views about the near-term rate path are
that you know productivity growth is
going to enable uh strong growth that's
still disinflationary in the context of
neutral or accommodative rates um and I
think that that over the near term he
will adhere to that view like I think
that that's not like a trick that he's
pulling on President Trump the questions
are more longer term if the data doesn't
doesn't cooperate, if you aren't able to
get that robust growth without uh
reaceleration of inflation, how does he
react to that? And how does he react if
there's a crisis down the line? And
again, what does he try and do uh from a
balance sheet perspective? Is it longer
to the curve?
>> He has he is a credible candidate and
he's had has had a distinguished career,
but I have to ask, how much is this is
just because Ron Lauder is his
father-in-law?
Uh I certainly I think the family
connection cannot be overlooked in terms
of why he has always been on the short
list because it is a bit of a curiosity
in terms of his stated views. This is a
president as you said who's looking
first and foremost for someone who is
laser focused on rate cuts in the near
term. W if you were just canvasing
every, you know, sort of Republican
aligned uh monetary policy thinker and
investor and and economist in a complete
vacuum without knowing that he had a
connection to Trump is not someone who
would screen out at the top of that
list. So, you know, I do think that that
connection has helped keep him in the
consideration set both in 2017 and now
and that he's needed to make the
substantive case to the president within
that process.
>> Tobin, what do you think this means for
Jay Powell now?
Um, you know, this is not the most norm
violating pick that you could have
cooked up. So, you know, relative to uh
Hasset, I guess, probably being the
person about whom you would have the
most concern, it probably somewhat
reduces the odds that Powell stays on. I
don't think that he's going to clarify
what he will do in terms of whether
he'll leave after his chairmanship ends
anytime soon. So probably from a
blocking and tackling perspective, that
means that they're going to need to
nominate Walsh for Governor Myron's
seat, which technically expires
tomorrow, but he's indicated he'll stay
on pending confirmation of a successor.
So, you know, that's the only vacancy
that they know they have. I think they
probably need to put Wars there and then
see what um Powell does down the line.
That could mean that they overlap for a
few meetings. you know, if he's able to
get confirmed fairly quickly, which
again probably does mean you wrap down
this probe, you can be sitting there um
for uh the next two meetings plausibly
uh while, you know, as a governor while
Powell is still chair before he he takes
over the
>> Well, tons of ifs here, but Toby, can we
just explore just finally, and I know
we've touched on some of this, what
would happen if he's not confirmed in
time and the chairman does step away or
if indeed if indeed he stays, who
becomes the Fed chair after May?
>> Yes. So, this would be a real mess. Uh
there have been rumors that in that
eventuality the president would try and
elevate Waller as someone who's on the
board of governors to be acting chair.
There's no real statutory provision to
enable that to happen. I think my read
of the statute is that it has to be the
vice chair uh which would be Jefferson
in this case. Obviously that is not an
outcome Trump wants. Then you also have
this strange curiosity that's come up
around some of the conversation about
firing Powell. That the FOMC picks its
own chair separate from other statutory
provisions determine who's the chair of
the Fed board of governors. So, that all
gets very messy very fast. I don't think
we're going to end up in that uh in that
outcome. To me, the fact that that is
such an opaque mess is all the more
reason for Trump to pull the plug on the
pure pro probe sooner rather than later,
assuming that he can't get Tillis to
back down, which I don't think he will.
>> Let's hope we can avoid that. Thank you,
sir. Toby Marcus there of Wolf Research.
Up next on the program, we'll speak to
the man himself, Senator Tom Tillis,
weighing Gim as President Trump
nominates Kevin Walsh to lead the Fed.
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning to you all and what a
morning so far. Equity futures on the
S&P negative by 0.4% on the NASDAQ.
We're down by 0.54 on the Russell. Some
underperformance here. Outperforming for
the month of January, but
underperforming on the session. We're
down by 1/4 percentage point in the bond
market. Bond yields are a little bit
higher at the long end of the curve. No
real drama though. Upper basis point on
10 on 30s up by two. Some economic data
are about to cross. Let's cross over to
Mike McKe for more. Good morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. Well the producer
price index for December. A little late
but coming out now up a half a percent
for the final demand numbers. That's
significantly more than the 210 that was
expected on a year-over-year basis.
keeps the PPI headline number at 3%. Uh
ex food and energy the the core is up
7/10 for the month. That is much more
than the 2% that 210 that was expected
and the flat 000 reading last month. And
then take out trade services and you
have a 3.5% in uh increase on a
year-over-year basis which is uh
stronger which is the same as it was the
last month. Now these numbers are
important because these are the uh last
ingredients that go into the
calculations for the PCE and J. Pal said
on Wednesday that the Fed had figured
out that core PCE was going to be 3 to
3.1% because of what they gotten in the
CPI. This may even push that a little
bit higher. Uh 7/10% advance in the
index for services is what pushed up
prices for the uh headline number this
time. And that's uh kind of the opposite
of the story that Powell was telling us
on Wednesday that it was goods that were
driving inflation and services were
dropping. Uh the core is uh was uh up
basically because uh we got not just
services uh but we also saw some demand
for uh other services go higher than
anticipated. So anyway uh I suppose now
the question is uh what does Kevin Walsh
think of all this? And I I know you've
got Senator Tillis there and you could
ask him what the price of snow shovels
in North Carolina is going to be this
weekend.
>> I imagine the price of those has gone
up, Mike, without a doubt. Mike McKe,
thank you, sir. The senator standing by.
Let's get to him right now. Senator Tom
Tillis from North Carolina joins us more
for more. Senator, welcome to the
program. So, you had been vowing to
block any nomination to the Federal
Reserve until the DOJ wraps up its
investigation. We have some news this
morning. As you know, Kevin Walsh has
been nominated by the president of the
United States to succeed chairman pow.
Does it change anything for you, sir?
>> Uh, no, it doesn't. I am pleased with
the nominee. I think that by most
accounts, he's well regarded, but we
still have to clear the uh the current
matter. Look, they're they're pursuing a
on the basis of criminal intent
testimony and a banking committee
hearing that clearly uh had no criminal
intent. So to me, uh, you got some
assistant US attorney with a dream in
the DC, um, district that should really
determine whether or not this frivolous,
uh, prosecution is worth holding up a,
uh, a Fed board seat.
>> Senator, we have some time between now
and May for that investigation to go
away and for the confirmation process to
open up. Have you given thought to what
would happen if we don't have that time?
we get to May, this is still lingering
and the chairman steps away. What
happens to the top of the Federal
Reserve?
>> Well, I I think that the we all need to
understand we'd still have a working um
quorum of members. Uh whether or not
they have an acting chair is a decision
that the president and uh I assume the
Treasury Secretary and others can look
at. But that's not my problem. We're
here because of them. We're not here
because of me. And so I think they
should work expeditiously if they really
do. I'm not an attorney. I watch a lot
of crime shows, but uh it doesn't look
like uh there was any criminal intent
here. They have to determine whether or
not it's worth grinding this out. Like I
said, I didn't put us here. Some
assistant US attorney in DC district
decided to put us here and they've got
to deter determine if they have a case
is worth pursuing. Senator Tillis, has
anyone from the administration or the
Department of Justice reached out to you
about the process of how this could go
down or giving you confidence that this
will be dropped in time for the
confirmation hearing to go forward?
>> Well, I I Lisa, I never talk about my
conversations with any of my members.
People always ask me what goes on at
lunch. I just don't have those
conversations. But my public statements
stand for themselves. Is closing the
investigation enough, Senator, or do you
need other asurances that you think this
administration is going to respect the
Fed independence?
>> Well, right now, I think you do that by
uh making a judgment. You look look,
we've got two cases here, right? We've
got the Cook case and we have the POW
case. Both of those to me are instances
of trying to undermine the credibility
of the Fed independence. And and I'm uh
I'm I'm staying focused on that one
goal. I'm not really persuaded or even
willing to entertain any discussions
that take me off that goal.
>> Okay. But you just mentioned the Lisa
Cook case. Do you also need to see that
wrapped up either by the by the Supreme
Court in order to move forward?
>> Yeah, I do. I mean, because look, I
mean, we're talking about what looks
like a paperwork error or if there was
if there was a mistake long before uh
she was uh uh confirmed for the board,
it's like my goodness, guys. I mean, I
don't know. Maybe PY or somebody thought
that that was cute. I didn't.
>> So, just to be clear, it is not just the
DOJ investigation to the Fed that you
need wrapped up. You also need the
Supreme Court case wrapped up. So,
that's two issues right now and blocks
for you to move forward with Kevin
Walsh.
>> Yeah. Well, no, let me uh let me
bipartate these. one is moving forward
with another um that the case that will
prevent me considering any board nominee
is the Powell case. Uh but I will not
move forward. So for the for the Fed
chair which we know expires in in
February. Uh the other case we have you
know the Myron uh term is about to
expire because he was filling a an you
know a the basically six weeks or I'm
sorry six months. We've got the cook
seat. Those are ones that are really
going to be uh I I'll take a look at the
candidate. I'll take a look at how it
would affect the board. Look, this is
all in my opinion, this is all about
sending a signal to the markets and to
the business community that Fed
independence is in critically important
and and going after the chair I think
took a stool out of the foundation of
people's confidence or a leg out of the
stool. In the case of Cook, I do believe
that it's another example of a trend and
you know the Senate has to stand in the
breach. We have to make sure that the
Fed maintains its independence and we
cannot reward any bad behavior that
seems like it's purely motivated not by
the substance of the allegations but by
the interest in trying to undermine the
Fed independent.
>> Senator, what's your understanding as to
whether the Federal Reserve is
cooperating with that investigation?
Some conflicting reports over the past
few days. What's your read on the
situation?
>> I you know I'm not really sure,
Jonathan. I um I I'm going to leave
that. That's a better question to ask
the administration or the DOJ.
>> Well, if we get the opportunity to speak
to them, I'm sure we'll ask. I've got
the opportunity to ask you about the man
and not just the process. You said this
morning, and you've said it again, that
Kevin Walsh is a qualified nominee with
a deep understanding of monetary policy.
For those familiar with Kevin Walsh and
his time at the Federal Reserve back in
the financial crisis, they have
considered him to be on the more hawkish
side of the spectrum at the on the FOMC.
And there is some debate this morning,
Senator, about what Kevin Walsh actually
stands for given that we know the
president wants lower interest rates.
What's your understanding of what he
stands for?
>> Well, you know, I um with Chair Powell,
I haven't uh agreed with all of his
opinions. I'm not an econ economist or
his positions and sometimes I may be
more hawkish than Chair Powell. Um, so I
coming in at I think uh I think uh Walsh
is a is a a good uh independent. He's
got an extraordinary reputation in in a
community of economists and and uh
people focused on the Fed. Uh I don't
think that he would want to destroy his
reputation by being independent. You
know, you could have hawkish members
like Waller and others, and I'm fine
with them on the board uh to stretch the
thinking. Um, but I don't believe he
comes in as more or less going to do the
bidding of the administration, which is
critically important. And incidentally,
I should say is critically important for
the health and hygiene of the
administration.
>> Senator Tillis, does this give you any
more confidence that actually the
independence of the Federal Reserve will
not be undermined, that this actually is
going to be a proper process once some
of the roadblocks you're talking about
are going to be cleared.
>> Yeah, I think so, Lisa. And look, this
is this is actually democracy and
institutional separation at its finest.
We have a disagreement and we have a
mechanism in place for resolving this
and moving on. Uh I hope that no one in
the administration takes personal
offense to this. I'm doing my job.
>> Senator, do you have any understanding
of the timeline?
>> Well, you know, the uh investigations
can go on forever. I mean, you you could
see one scenario where Chair Pal has two
years left on his term, even if after he
comes off the board. So, I mean, you you
could see this going on for two years or
in my case, 339 days
>> cuz 300 uh 339 days, that's when you're
going to be retiring. Um, and I know
Lisa as you have had any conversations.
I want to ask you about those
conversations, but have you have seen
any indications from anyone that they do
want to wrap up the DOJ investigation as
soon as possible? Well, you know, I I
think um Henry, I I think that the um
the fact that they're putting forward
this nominee, knowing that it would be
impossible to get him through with the
current position that I've taken, it
suggests to me that maybe they are
trying to find a way to uh to deal with
this. It it could be adjudicated
expeditiously or it could be just
determining that they also agree that
there was no criminal intent in the
chair's testimony in the banking
committee that I participated in.
>> And Senator, just quickly, have you
spoken to the White House? Have they
reached out?
>> Uh, you know, like I said, I we I have
ongoing discussions. The president and I
probably communicate once or twice a
week at least through text. So, I have
ongoing discussions. I'm not going to
talk about the content of them,
Jonathan. Um, kind of like Groundhog
Day. I'm going to answer the same
question every day the same way. It's a
>> good movie I heard.
>> Senator, we appreciate your time. Thanks
for jumping on the call. Thank you, sir.
Thank you very much. Senator Tom Tillis
there on his way to the gym. The senator
made me watch Groundhog Day in the last
week.
>> We heard about that just what that joke
is about.
>> Elaborate on that.
>> I'm aware. Let's talk about the content
of the conversation if we can.
>> Of course, and his content of his
workout, which is actually really
impressive. It sounds like it's going to
take a while to get this done unless
unless this investigation goes away.
>> But if the investigation goes away, it
sounds like there is a vote on the part
of Tom Tillis for uh Fed Chair Kevin
Worsh. And I think that that's
interesting because he really supported
the integrity of this person and said
that he does think that he gives a sense
of independence to the Federal Reserve.
>> Right. It's not about Kevin Walsh, it's
about the process. That last comment
there about him and Trump communicating
at least once a week ongoing talks. I
think potentially there could be an
off-ramp and this DOJ investigation goes
away and this could be become a lot
clearer potentially. But at the same
time, Senator Tillis is making it very
clear he will not move until it does go
away. So that's 339 days.
>> Sure.
>> Or it goes away.
>> Based on what we all heard there, a
matter of when and not if. And I think
that's important and it means that yes,
things could get messy and we can park
that because we got no idea how that
plays out. And we can focus on Kevin
Walsh, the man himself, and what he
stands for. Because this morning, I
think the big takeaway from everybody on
Wall Street is there is no real
consensus on what Kevin Walsh stands for
and how he will vote once he gets on
this committee.
>> That alone is giving us support though
to the dollar. And I think that that's
really notable that it couldn't have
been. It wasn't necessarily some of the
picks that would be thought to be simply
doing President Trump's bidding. It's
this idea that we heard from Senator
Tillis that on the margins this actually
does imbue a bit more sense of
independence to the Federal Reserve and
I think that that's what the market is
picking up. I wonder how far this dollar
trade's going to go.
>> And the Lisa Cook chair that seat he's
not moving forward until the Supreme
Court has a ruling on that. So actually
it's a lot of musical chairs right now
when it comes to the Federal Reserve.
>> A lot of moving parts that's for sure.
Equities so far negative by 0.5% on the
S&P 500. Lots of news elsewhere. Let's
get you an update on that and more with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara.
Hi Yahara.
>> Exactly, John. Recapping the inflation
data we got moments ago, overshadowed by
that war news. But producer prices
coming in hotter than expected in
December, rising 3% year-over-year
compared to estimates of 2.8%.
Month overmonth data was also hotter
than expected, rising half a percent
after a 2/10en gain the prior month.
Meanwhile, our top story, President
Donald Trump nominating former Fed
Governor Kevin Worsh to replace Jay
Powell as chair of the central bank in a
post on Truth Social. The president's
writing, I have known Kevin for a long
time and have no doubt he will go down
as one of the great Fed chairman and
President Trump saying he successfully
appealed to Russia's Vladimir Putin to
halt strikes on Keev and other Ukrainian
cities for a week. The move comes as
Ukraine faces severe cold and power
shortages due to demand damaged
infrastructure from recent Russian
attacks. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Up next on the program, Lindsey Per of
Steel as Kevin Walsh gets the nod from
President Trump to lead the Federal
Reserve. Plus, Yahara comes back with
your morning movers. Exxon and Chevron
trading lower following earnings.
I expect him to be tested in this the
same way that Mark's tested every single
central banker. It's a committee, so
he's still one individual on the
committee. And I think the test is
really going to be him as a politician,
his ability to influence other members
of the committee to actually get to the
place where say the president wants
interest rates to be. That was Alex
Elman of Barclay who's on the big news
this morning. The president nominating
the former Fed Governor Kevin Walsh as
his big pick to lead the Federal
Reserve. As we count you down to the
oven and bell, equity futures negative
by 0.4%. We're down 610 on the NASDAQ.
On the Russell, we're down by 1/4
percentage point. With your morning
movers with more, here's Yahihara. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. There was a lot of anticipation
going into the earnings of Exxon and
Chevron due to sliding oil prices plus
Venezuela and we got them. The both
stocks are weaker. Exxon down 1.2%
despite both companies beating
estimates. And I want to bring you some
news from our energy team this morning
about Chevron saying that it will fund
operations in Venezuela using cash from
oil sales, not committing new capital to
the country. Meanwhile, Tesla bucking
the Mag 7 weakness. Shares are up nearly
1.8% in the pre-market on our scoop that
SpaceX may merge with Tesla or
potentially merge with Musk's X AI ahead
of an IPO. This comes after a dramatic
shift announced this week by Elon Musk
reshuffling factory lines in order to
have Tesla focus more on robotics, AI,
and autonomous technology. And we end on
SanDisk. Those shares soaring more than
20% in the pre-market after a blowout
quarter. The AI buildout has transformed
this company from a highly cyclical
business. Now customers want to lock in
orders want to lock in multi-year orders
instead of going quarter to quarter
because the the demand for memory chips
is just off the charts. John,
>> that move just explosive up another 22%.
Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Great work. As we can down to
the open and bell, here's the trading
diary for today and the week ahead. The
government funding deadline of course
later on. Plus Fed speak from Musulum
and Bowman. Monday, ISM manufacturing
data and earnings from Disney. On
Tuesday, Jolts data and results from
FISA, Pepsi, and AMD. The payrolls
report not too far away. We've got
Alphabet earnings on Wednesday, I think.
Amazon on Thursday. Got a stank week
coming up.
>> Yeah. And all the oxygen is being sucked
out of the room by what will Kevin Worsh
think of all this? I mean ultimately
right when you think about how much is
going on right now and how much we've
gotten overnight with respect to Apple
and over the week with respect uh to uh
other big tech earnings we got PPI
exceeding expectations. Oh my gosh,
inflation markets me. What does Kevin
Worsh think?
>> Also, payroll's next Friday. Asterk. We
think payroll's next Friday. Most likely
payroll is next Friday, but we are going
to have we are
>> don't do that.
>> We're going to probably have I they're
not going to make this deadline tonight,
I don't think.
>> Yeah, but it'll be done by Monday. Maybe
just make it go away. Just make it go
away. Maybe
>> Oh god, why why are we doing this?
>> It might be short, but you don't know.
Okay,
>> let's turn back to our top story. What
does Kevin Walsh think?
>> Right.
>> That's exactly what it is.
>> Lindsey Pra joins us now for more.
Lindsay, welcome to the program. Who is
Kevin Walsh? What does he stand for?
People are familiar with his resume. Who
is the man when he starts to lead the
Federal Reserve?
>> Well, you're right. The market is
familiar with him, which is certainly a
plus for the nominee. He spent many
years at the Fed, including time during
the financial crisis, acting really as
the primary liaison, if you remember,
between the Fed and Wall Street. So
again, investors know him. They're
comfortable with him. He's also said to
approach policy in a very calm and
methodical manner. So giving investors
further confidence in his ability. He
also has a very unique background
spanning across the the spectrum from
academia to politics to finance. Now, he
was known as an inflation hawk during
his time on the board, but more
recently, he has shifted his position,
calling for a new regime at the Fed and
notably lower rates. So, at least for
the administration now, he does seem to
be checking all the boxes. But at a time
when the Fed's independence is being
questioned, I wonder if this is going to
further muddy those waters.
>> Why do you say that, Lindsay? at a
certain point. Uh if it's this is
somebody who is established and who has
a track record in academia and at the
Federal Reserve, why would it muddy the
waters of independence?
>> Well, I I think it's because he was
known to be an inflation hawk and again
the the change in his position. Now, of
course, times change, positions can
change, but the timing of his shift in
his commentary calling for lower rates.
In line with the president's push for
lower rates, while inflation is still
elevated, and as we saw this morning in
the PPI reversing course with a
reaceleration, it may raise some
questions about whether or not there is
some political influence over the
chairman. Now, keep in mind that the
chairman always has one vote just like
other members of the committee, but the
chairman does have a very p persuasive
tone if if you will over the direction
and the analysis of the appropriate
pathway for policy going forward. So,
this is a very monumental decision.
>> Atlanta Fed President Raphael Bostik has
been speaking over the past few minutes
and he's been talking about how exactly
to your point ultimately this is a
committee of 12 people and it requires
12 votes. also saying uh that at this
point still has a we still have a ways
to go on inflation and we need to be
vigilant. I know you agree with that
Lindsay. What does that mean in terms of
the path ahead that you think would be
necessary to really get this economy
back into balance?
>> Well, I think at a bare minimum we do
expect the Fed to remain on the sideline
now for an extended period of time given
the still elevated level of inflation
and the solid nature of the underlying
economy. We're talking about over a 4%
growth rate in the third quarter and
potentially even stronger growth as we
await that fourth quarter number. So
again, base case, the Fed's on the
sidelines. But if we really want to talk
about tackling inflation, with the Fed
having stopped short of a sufficiently
restrictive level back at 5.5%, the Fed
may need to talk about additional rate
hikes should inflation continue to
accelerate and potentially push closer
to 4% later in the year. Now again,
that's not our base case scenario, but
the Fed does have to be ready to shift
gears if inflation does continue to push
further away from that 2% target.
>> Not your base case, but you could see
that being a potential scenario at some
point this year.
>> Not necessarily this year. Uh if we do
see inflation continue to get hotter
than expected, that could lead the Fed
to at least begin to talk about shifting
positions. But remember, this has been a
Fed that has been very tolerant of
inflation above that 2% target for quite
some time. So, as we saw in this
morning's PPI shifting above 3%, that's
not going to be enough to move the
needle. We would have to see consistent
upward momentum away from the 2% target,
further towards 4% or beyond before I
think the Fed would be willing to shift
gears.
>> Lindsay, appreciate your time as always.
Lindsay Pixer of Steve. We're all having
the same conversation right now. What
kind of leader will Kevin Walsh be once
if he's confirmed and leads this
committee at the Federal Reserve? This
from Blake Quinn of RBC published just
moments ago. It's not necessarily that
instructive to look at Walsh's past
statements or behavior as an indicator
of what he will do as chair.
>> Yeah, this is a Wall Street that is very
forgiving. They say, you know, just your
past performance does not determine
future performance. And we're taking
that to heart. I will say I'm laughing a
little bit because Blake also said,
"You're hired." asterisk pending Senate
confirmation. The final of the finale of
The Apprentice Fed Chair Edition aired
today with Trump officially announcing
that he was nominating Kevin Worsh. What
I find interesting is how much oxygen
Kevin Walsh is taking out of the room.
And the fact that markets aren't moving
that much indicates the Fed's in the
backseat when it comes to what's driving
this market. Now we've got to look at
other things.
>> Lisa, you nailed it earlier in the
program. Will the real Kevin Worsh
please stand up? We don't know who he
is. We really don't know his beliefs now
because he's, you know, he's a he's
seesawing.
>> We're going to have a weekend full of
this, aren't we? And another week after
that. But your final point is the
important point. So much of this market
recently has been driven by something
else and not the right story.
>> Right now we're all attuned to the Fed
of 2009. This is a different Fed in a
very different moment where they're not
necessarily as relevant.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. This was Bloomberg
surveillance.
The women's semifinals at the Australian
Open. Arena Sabalena took out Alina
Spidilina in straight sets to reach her
fourth consecutive championship match
down under.
She'll face Alina Rabbaka for the title
after she survived a late rally from
Jessica Beula to reach her fourth final
at the majors. And don't forget TC Live
will keep you up to date.